This may be the author’s version of a work that was submitted/accepted
for publication in the following source:

Bianchi, Constanza & Andrews, Lynda
(2012)
Risk, trust, and consumer online purchasing behaviour: a Chilean per-
spective.
International Marketing Review, 29(3), pp. 253-275.

This ﬁle was downloaded from: https://eprints.qut.edu.au/48525/

© Consult author(s) regarding copyright matters

This work is covered by copyright. Unless the document is being made available under a

Creative Commons Licence, you must assume that re-use is limited to personal use and

that permission from the copyright owner must be obtained for all other uses. If the docu-

ment is available under a Creative Commons License (or other speciﬁed license) then refer

to the Licence for details of permitted re-use. It is a condition of access that users recog-

nise and abide by the legal requirements associated with these rights. If you believe that

this work infringes copyright please provide details by email to qut.copyright@qut.edu.au

Notice: Please note that this document may not be the Version of Record
(i.e. published version) of the work. Author manuscript versions (as Sub-
mitted for peer review or as Accepted for publication after peer review) can
be identiﬁed by an absence of publisher branding and/or typeset appear-
ance. If there is any doubt, please refer to the published source.

https://doi.org/10.1108/02651331211229750

Risk, Trust, and Consumer Online Purchasing Behaviour: A Latin American 
Perspective 

Abstract 

Purpose:  The purpose of this study is to investigate Latin American online purchase 
behaviour with a specific focus on the influence of perceived risk and trust. While studies of 
this nature have been conducted quite extensively in developed countries, their application in 
developing countries, such as Latin America is limited. Our study addresses this gap in the 
literature with an empirical study conducted in Chile.  

Design/methodology/approach: The authors develop and test a proposed model of the 
influence of consumer’s perceptions of risk and trust on their attitudes and intentions to 
purchase on the Internet. An online survey method is used. The sample consists of 176 
Chilean consumers who have made at least one purchase online. The data is analysed using 
structural equation modelling technique (SEM). 

Findings: The analysis revealed that of the perceived risk and trust factors examined, trust in 
third party assurances and a cultural environment of trust had the strongest positive influence 
on intentions to continuing purchasing online. Perceived risk had an inverse relationship with 
attitude and consumers’ attitude has a positive influence on intentions to purchase online. 
Trust in online vendors and a propensity to trust were both insignificant.  

Practical implications: Practically, these results identity which risk and trust beliefs towards 
purchasing online have the most effect thereby providing insights into how companies should 
seek to mitigate perceptions of risk to encourage new and return purchasers. Additionally, this 
research shows that consumers in a Latin American country, recognised as a collectivist, high 
risk avoidance culture, are willing to make purchases online despite the risks involved.  

Originality/value: The study and its results is one of few available that consider a Latin 
American context. The value of the findings provides insights into the specific risk and trust 
factors that influence Chilean consumers when considering purchasing online. The tested 
model adds value not only to the literature on Latin American consumer behaviour but also 
provides guidance for companies offering online retailing facilities in these less developed 
countries .  

Keywords: Online purchasing, perceived risk, trust, Chile, Latin America 

Paper type Research paper - special edition on Latin America 

0 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 

Consumers in developed countries, such as the United States, and those in Europe, have 

embraced the Internet for commercial purposes and the figures from online retail activity 

continue to rise annually in both the United States (2010) and in Western Europe (von 

Abrams, 2010). However in less developed countries, including those in Latin America, the 

take up of e-commerce has been much slower (Nasco et al., 2008). Using Chile as an 

example, while business to business transactions have increased, there is only limited growth 

in business-to-consumer (B2C) transactions (Rohm et al., 2004). The limited growth in this 

region is surprising as between 2000 and 2009 Latin American Internet users increased by 

853%, compared to regions such as the United States and Europe, with growth rates of 

145.8% and 297.8% respectively (New Media TrendWatch 2009). Such observations suggest 

that this area of online commerce is still very much in an emergent state and additional 

research into consumer’s online purchase behaviour in Latin America is warranted (Nasco et 

al., 2008). 

We acknowledge the extensive body of research emanating from studies in developed 

countries related to factors that influence or inhibit consumers’ online purchase behaviour 

(e.g., Van den Poel and Leunis, 1999; Bhatnagar et al., 2000; Jarvenpaa et al., 2000; Biswas 

and Biswas, 2004; Forsythe et al., 2006; Andrews et al., 2007; McCole et al., 2010; Qureshi et 

al., 2009; Urban et al., 2009). Often identified in those studies, and of particular interest to our 

study, is the influence of consumers’ perceptions of risk and trust when considering 

purchasing online. Research continues to identify that risk and trust factors are important and 

need to be addressed (e.g., Cheung and Lee, 2001; McCole et al., 2010; Wu et al., 2010). 

Moreover, these issues need to be addressed as a core component of effective marketing 

strategy, rather than at a tactical level (Urban et al., 2009) in order to improve levels of online 

1 

 
transactions. This is important if the customers are going to become advocates for firms 

through satisfaction and continued use (Urban et al., 2009).  

Additionally, a consumer-centric focus is important when considering that differing 

cultural dimensions may in turn influence consumers’ perceptions risk and trust that impact 

on purchasing on the Internet (Greenberg et al., 2008). Evidence suggests that cultural 

differences exist about consumer acceptance of new communication technologies (Maldifassi 

and Canessa, 2010) and that they should not be overlooked when conducting research in such 

countries (Hofstede, 2001).  

We report on a study that examines consumers' perceptions of risk and trust with online 

purchasing and how these factors influence the likelihood of continued online purchase 

behaviour in a Latin American country, in this case Chile. Latin American countries, have 

received limited academic attention  in terms technology readiness (Donoso and Crittenden, 

2008) and e-commerce development (Nasco et al., 2008; Grandón et al., 2010). Taking Chile 

as an example, this is somewhat surprising as it is ranked 27th on the Global Competitive 

Index (cited in (Donoso and Crittenden, 2008) and has the fourth largest Internet population 

in Latin America (TrendWatch, 2009). 

Our study is grounded in attitude theory adapted from Fishbein and Azjen(1975). 

Applications of attitude theory to consumers’ intentions to adopt Internet purchasing forms a 

significant body of consumer behaviour research (Taylor and Strutton, 2010), particularly in 

the United States. However its application to consumers’ online purchasing behaviour in 

Latin American countries has received far less attention (Nasco et al., 2008; Grandón et al., 

2010). By inference it could be argued that e-commerce adoption research applied in 

developed countries may not necessarily be as relevant for Latin American countries due to 

differing cultural dimensions (Gong, 2009; Grandón et al., 2010; Nasco et al., 2008).  

2 

 
There are two main objectives in the study reported here: 1) to examine Chilean 

consumers’ perceptions of risk and trust towards purchasing online; 2) to examine whether 

constructs used in developed countries can inform online purchase behaviour in developing 

countries, such as those in Latin America. In the following sections we examine the literature 

regarding perceived risk and trust in the context of online purchasing as well as discussing 

possible cultural dimensions that could be at play in the study. We are not, however 

undertaking a cross cultural study. The sample consists of Chilean consumers who have made 

at least one purchase online. The methodology used in the study is reported together with the 

results. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed and future research identified.    

2.  Theoretical framework and country of interest  

The study is positioned within broad framework of the Theory of Reasoned Action (TRA: 

Fishbein and Ajzen, 1975). TRA is a well recognized attitude theory in consumer behaviour 

research (Taylor and Strutton, 2010) that has been applied in many countries. However, in a 

Chilean context, while this model has been applied e-commerce adoption by small to medium 

size enterprises (Grandón et al., 2010; Nasco et al., 2008), we have not found any consumer-

centric applications of TRA relating to online purchase behaviour at this present time. 

Additionally, online purchasing research applied to consumers in developed countries may 

vary for consumers in Latin American countries due to differing cultural dimensions (Gong, 

2009; Grandón et al., 2010; Nasco et al., 2008). We seek to address such limitations using 

Chile as a representative Latin American country.  

Overall, Latin American countries are considered to be high context /high collectivist 

cultures with high uncertainty avoidance (Hofstede, 2001). Chile was rated by Hofstede 

(2001) as having a low rating of 23 on individualism and a high rating of 86 on uncertainly 

avoidance.  Put in context, this means that Chile can be viewed as a high collectivist / high 

uncertainty avoidance culture (Cyr, 2008). Therefore, cultural influences in terms of 

3 

 
perceived risk and trust in the online environment should not be overlooked when 

technological readiness is of interest to academic scholarship in Latin America (Donoso and 

Crittenden (2008).  The next section discusses the extant literature in terms of the risk and 

trust constructs of interest to our research. 

3.  Conceptualisation of constructs and hypothesis development 

From the extant research available it is apparent that consumers continue to perceive that 

using the Internet for purchasing is risky (e.g., Bourlakis et al., 2008; Drennan et al., 2006; 

Kuhlmeier and Knight, 2005; McCole et al., 2010; Ha and Coghill, 2008). Moreover these 

perceptions can have a significant and inverse relationship with attitudes and intentions 

regardless of whether a person purchases online or not (Andrews and Boyle, 2008; Forsythe 

et al., 2006).  

In addition to perceived risk, research also identifies that trust is an important factor in 

reducing perceptions of risk (Cheung and Lee, 2001; Jarvenpaa and Tractinsky, 1999; 

Jarvenpaa et al., 2000; McCole et al., 2010; McKnight et al., 2002; Tan and Sutherland, 

2004). Trust makes consumers comfortable sharing personal information, making purchases, 

and acting on Web vendor advice, all of which are behaviours essential to widespread 

adoption of e-commerce. Therefore, an understanding of the impact of trust is critical to both 

researchers and practitioners (McKnight et al., 2002). Moreover, trust is regarded as a multi-

dimensional construct that takes into account previously identified notions of perceived risk 

(e.g., Cheung and Lee, 2001; McCole et al., 2010; McKnight et al., 2002; Tan and Sutherland, 

2004). Drawing on Tan and Sutherland’s (2004) conceptual approach and empirical studies 

(e.g., Cheung and Lee, 2001; McCole et al., 2010), we measure trust in the online 

environment (perceived online risk), and trust in the online vendor.  Also included is trust in 

third party assurances, consumer propensity to trust, and the cultural environment of trust as 

antecedents of attitude and intentions to purchase online. These concepts are discussed in 

4 

 
more detail and the resulting hypotheses are drawn together in the conceptual model of the 

influence of perceived risk and trust on attitude and intentions depicted in Figure 1. 

3.1 Consumer attitudes and intentions towards purchasing online 

Insert Figure 1 here 

Drawing on TRA, consumer attitude relates to the extent to which an individual makes a 

positive or negative evaluation about performing behaviour (Fishbein and Ajzen, 1975).  For 

this study, consumer attitude towards online purchasing is defined as the extent to which a 

consumer makes a positive or negative evaluation about purchasing online (Andrews et al., 

2007).  Intentions are regarded as a suitable proxy of actual behaviour when it is not possible 

to measure such outcomes. However, participants in our study have all purchased online at 

least once and so their measured intention relates to continuing to purchase online. Focusing 

on consumers’ continuation of a behaviour is important in the post adoption phase (Taylor 

and Strutton, 2010; Urban et al., 2009; Wu et al., 2010). Previous studies suggest that attitude 

is a predictor of intentions to purchase online (e.g. Doolin et al., 2005; Hernández et al., 2010; 

Ha and Stoel, 2009) or for e-commerce adoption in SMEs (Grandón et al., 2010; Nasco et al., 

2008).  Moreover, for individuals with direct experience of a phenomenon, such as having 

purchased online (e.g. Hernández et al., 2010),  this attitude will be more easily accessible in 

their memory (Fazio and Zanna, 1981). Thus, we expect a positive relationship between 

consumer attitude and intentions to purchase online. Furthermore, we assume that this 

relationship holds in a Latin American context, thus we hypothesize the following: 

Hypothesis 1: Consumer attitude towards purchasing online has a positive influence on 

consumer intention to purchase online.  

5 

 
3.2 Perceived Online Risk 

Perceived online risk is identified by Cheung and Lee (2001) and McCole et al. (2010), 

and is similar to Tan and Sutherland’s (2004) conceptualisation of institutional risk. It relates 

to the online environment where a consumer needs to trust the technology involved to 

undertake the various tasks involved in searching and purchasing (McCole et al., 2010; Tan 

and Sutherland, 2004).  Perceived risk has consistently been identified as having a negative 

influence towards online behaviour, including purchasing (Kim et al., 2008). Forsythe et al. 

(2006) examined three factors: financial risk, product risk and time/convenience risk. Their 

findings suggest that all three factors negatively impacted on perceptions of the Internet for 

purchasing for those respondents who were visitors rather than purchasers. Additionally, 

those respondents who purchased on the Internet less frequently were more influenced by 

perceived risk in the Internet than those who purchased more frequently (Forsythe et al. 

(2006).  

Research also has focused on a generalised perception of risk involved with the online 

environment, for example that it is uncertain, risky, and dangerous and has negative outcomes 

(Cheung and Lee, 2001; Chen and Barnes, 2007). Such perceptions are often associated with 

using the medium, that is, with the security and reliability of transactions over the Web, 

termed transaction risk (Biswas and Biswas, 2004). However, it is not necessarily the amount 

of money involved with the purchase, or the actual product itself, but being put at risk of 

losing money via credit card fraud (Andrews and Boyle, 2008; Bhatnagar et al., 2000; Biswas 

and Biswas, 2004).  Substantive findings suggest that perceptions of risk about using the Web 

for purchasing can outweigh a consumer’s perceptions about the benefits  as well as acting as 

a primary barrier to doing so (Kuhlmeier and Knight, 2005; Yang and Jun, 2002; Bhatnagar 

and Ghose, 2004; Andrews and Boyle, 2008). Moreover, even when individuals do purchase 

online, they are still wary of the risks involved with the Internet environment (Andrews and 

6 

 
 
Boyle, 2008; Forsythe et al., 2006). We also assume that for a high risk avoidance culture 

such as Chile that this relationship would hold in a Latin American context, thus we propose 

the following hypothesis: 

Hypothesis 2: Perceived online risk has a negative influence on consumer attitude 

towards online purchasing.  

3.3 Trustworthiness of the Online Vendor  

In order to overcome some of the risks noted above, the notion of trust has been 

incorporated into studies of online purchasing (See Bourlakis et al., 2008 ; Urban et al., 2009). 

Trustworthiness of the online vendor has been identified in a number of studies (Jarvenpaa 

and Tractinsky, 1999; Jarvenpaa et al., 2000; McCole et al., 2010; Tan and Sutherland, 2004). 

This dimension examines the extent to which consumers place trust in the vendors from 

whom they purchase (Jarvenpaa and Tractinsky, 1999; Jarvenpaa et al., 2000). McCole et al. 

(2010) examined vendor trustworthiness, and found that this factor positively influences 

attitude towards online purchasing. Jarvenpaa, et al. (2000) found that trust in online vendors 

positively influenced consumers’ attitudes towards the online vendor, which in turn 

influenced their willingness to buy.   

Other evidence suggests that familiarity with an online store also has positive influence 

(e.g., Stranahan and Kosiel, 2007; Garbarino and Strahilevitz, 2004). Moreover, certain 

demographics, for example those under 60 and more highly educated people (Stranahan and 

Kosiel, 2007) and men (Garbarino and Strahilevitz, 2004) are more likely to purchase in 

unfamiliar online stores. By inference it can be assumed that, for these demographics, there 

was a level of initial perceived trust in the online vendors that enabled them to make 

purchases, as suggested by Wu et al. (2010). On average, evidence appears to suggest that 

consumer trust in the online vendor has a positive relationship with attitudes towards 

purchasing online, thus following hypothesis is stated:  

7 

 
Hypothesis 3: Consumer perceived trustworthiness of the online vendor has a positive 

influence on consumer attitudes towards online purchasing.  

3.4 Trust in third party assurances 

Studies further suggest that in order to reduce perceptions of risk in transacting in the 

Internet environment, and to increase perceptions of trust in the vendor, Internet firms should 

display third party assurances on their websites. Cheung and Lee (2001) term this concept as 

third party recognition suggesting that such assurance seals are recognised as being external 

to the online vendor. Vendors can provide certification indicators, such as Web assurance 

seals, Trustmarks or credit card symbols on their websites that increase an individual’s 

propensity to trust act (Wu et al., 2010) and act as risk relievers (McCole et al., 2010). These 

can be statements about the encryption technology used or visual indications of secure 

payment systems through the use of specific logos or icons, e.g. Verisign (Andrews and 

Boyle, 2008). They represent third party seals of approval that are recognised and trusted by 

the public (Park et al., 2010). These third party assurances are used to help to relieve negative 

perceptions about the risks of conducting transactions online, thereby creating consumer trust 

in Internet stores (Biswas and Biswas, 2004; Drennan et al., 2006; Wang et al., 2004). 

 However, findings regarding consumer trust in third party assurances are mixed.  For 

example, general awareness of such seals is low (Head and Hassanein, 2002) and that 

consumer do not look for such assurances but simply assume they are in place (Andrews and 

Boyle, 2008). McKnight et al. (2004) also found that seals do not influence consumer trust. In 

contrast, Park et al. (2010) found that  third party assurance seals affect overall satisfaction 

suggesting that consumers have higher expectations of sites with seals. McCole et al. (2010) 

found that trust in third party assurance positively influenced attitude towards purchasing. As 

this discussion shows, there are mixed results regarding the influence of trust in third parties 

and requires ongoing examination. We take the view that since Chile is a high risk avoidance 

8 

 
culture, trust in third party assurances should influence attitude thus, the following hypothesis 

is stated:  

Hypothesis 4: Trust in third party assurances has a positive influence on consumer 

attitude towards purchasing online. 

3.5 Consumer Propensity to Trust 

A propensity to trust is a disposition to trust others in general (McKnight et al., 2002; Wu 

et al., 2010). It is theorised that a disposition to trust influences both online vendor trust and 

an individual’s intentions to engage in trust-related behaviours on the Internet (McKnight et 

al., 2002); by inference, intentions to engage in online purchase behaviour. The concept 

includes the notion of faith in humanity and a general trust in others rather than focusing on 

specific Internet vendor issues (McKnight et al., 2002; Wu et al., 2010). Cheung and Lee 

(2001) discuss the propensity to trust, suggesting that it is an individual characteristic that is 

based on both experience and cultural environment. They argue that individuals who find it 

easy to trust are more likely to trust purchasing in the online environment compared to those 

who do not find it easy to trust.  

Wu et al., (2010) suggest that such trust does not have to be based on experience or 

knowledge of a specific trusted party. Instead, a propensity to trust is based more on faith in 

humanity and general trust partly based on personality but also arising from an individual’s 

socialisation towards trusting others. This notion is also supported by Gong (2009) who 

suggests that high trust cultures have a greater propensity to trust those in their own culture. 

Tan and Sutherland (2004) discuss dispositional trust in much the same way as Cheung and 

Lee (2001) and McKnight et al. (2002), regarding it as a personality trait. 

McKnight et al. (2002) found that propensity to trust was positively related to personal 

innovativeness in their examination of the structure of trust. Findings in Wu et al. (2010) 

show that a disposition to trust was not significant for any of the hypothesised relationships in 

9 

 
their extensive study. Cheung and Lee (2001) offer propositions regarding this construct’s 

relationships with other trust variables rather than attitude or intentions towards online 

shopping behaviour. However, it can be argued that because a propensity to trust arises from 

an individual’s socialization, it is possible that it may act as a cultural normative influence 

that can be predicted to influence intentions in a TRA framework. Thus the following 

hypothesis is proposed:  

Hypothesis 5: Consumer propensity to trust has a positive influence on consumer 

intention to purchase online.  

3.6 Cultural Environment of trust with online purchasing   

Tan and Sutherland (2004) state that cultural values have a role in people’s disposition to 

trust. In extending this notion, Cheung and Lee (2001) included the cultural environment of 

trust in their scale development study, arguing that it is a dimension of an individual’s 

propensity to trust in something or someone. Certainly the cross cultural literature supports 

the notion that a cultural environment of trust is a factor that needs to be considered (Cyr, 

2008; Greenberg et al., 2008; Hofstede, 2001; Wu et al., 2010).  

As a result many studies include country as the surrogate measure of cultural 

environment. The scale development work by Cheung and Lee (2001) identified that there is a 

dimension of a propensity or disposition to trust that can capture the cultural environment of 

trust.  However no studies have been found that specifically examine this aspect of trust as a 

separate and measurable factor.  We therefore include this dimension of propensity to trust as 

a separate construct and, as it is based on cultural dimensions and can be considered as a 

normative influence, we propose the following hypothesis:  

Hypothesis 6: Cultural environment of trust has a positive influence on consumer 

intention to purchase online.  

4. Research Design and Methodology 

10 

 
One thousand potential participants were extracted from a University’s alumni database 

located in Santiago. The survey instrument was initially developed in English, which was then 

translated into Spanish by the native speaking research team member. This survey was then 

back translated by a colleague in Chile as suggested by (Brislin, 1970). A convenience sample 

of five Chilean consumers in Australia pre-tested the survey, resulting in refining wording for 

some of the items. To reduce the common method bias, semantic differential scales and 7-

point Likert-type scales were used (Podsakoff et al., 2003). The survey was placed online and 

accessed through a URL hosted by the faculty of an Australian university. Potential 

participants were sent an email introducing the research team, the objectives of the study and 

an embedded link to the survey. A total of 182 participants completed the survey, representing 

a 17.6% response. Following the elimination of six cases with extensive missing data, 176 

cases were used to test the proposed structural model. The sample comprised 55.7% females 

and 44.3% males with 100% having purchased at least one product or service on the Internet. 

The demographic characteristics of the participants are shown in Table 1.  

Insert Table 1 here 

The data shows that for the most part, these respondents have made online purchases from 

well known domestic retailer websites, such as falabella.cl (largest domestic department 

store), lan.com (largest domestic airline), jumbo.cl (largest domestic supermarket chain), 

ripley.cl (domestic department store), telemercadoseuropa.cl (online grocery retailer), and 

ticketmaster.cl (shows and concerts). Respondents have also purchased from foreign retail 

websites predominantly at amazon.com and e-bay.com.  Furthermore, the most frequently 

purchased online products or services by respondents are computing and electronics, books 

and magazine subscriptions, air flight tickets, household bills, groceries, concert tickets and 

gifts.  

4.1 Measurement 

11 

 
The survey questionnaire uses extant measures from the literature. Consumer attitude 

towards online purchase was measured with five items using a semantic differential scale 

adapted from Oliver and Bearden (1985). Perceived online risk was measured by 4 items 

from Andrews et al. (2007). The constructs trustworthiness of the online vendor and trust in 

third party assurances were measured by a three-item scale adapted from Cheung and Lee 

(2001). Consumer propensity to trust and cultural environment of trust were each measured 

with three items with the wording adapted from Cheung and Lee (2001). All of the foregoing 

items used 7 point Likert type scales with anchor points ranging from 1=totally disagree to 

7=totally agree. The dependent variable, consumer intentions to purchase online was 

measured with 3 items adopted from Andrews et al. (2007). The sources of the construct 

measures and their standardized estimates are illustrated in Table 2. The correlations, means 

and standard deviations for the construct measures are shown in Table 3. 

Insert Table 2 here 

Insert Table 3 here 

 In the measurement purification process, item-to-total correlations, standardized 

Cronbach Alpha, Exploratory Factor Analysis (EFA) (all in SPSS), single measurement 

models, and Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA) (with AMOS 16) were conducted for all 

constructs. Considering common procedures in structural equations modelling (SEM), all 

measures in the CFA were used to test the proposed SEM model (Anderson and Gerbing, 

1991).  

5. Analysis and Results 

For this study, structural equation modelling (SEM) in AMOS 17 was used to test the 

proposed model and the hypothesized paths. The SEM analysis shows a relatively good fit for 

the model (χ2/df=1.702, IFI=.915, TLI=.900, CFI=.913, and RMSEA=.063). Testing the 

reliability and validity of the construct measures was conducted using alpha reliability, 

12 

 
correlations, and CFA analyses and tests. As evidence of convergent validity, CFA results in 

Table 3 signify that most of the items are significantly associated with their hypothesized 

factors. To check and reduce the common method bias variance, the questionnaire initially 

mixed positive and negatively worded items. Further, to satisfy the statistical contention of 

common method bias variance, questionnaire items were re-coded to make all the constructs 

symmetric. Using Podsakoff and Organ’s (1986) procedure, factor analysis was conducted for 

all constructs and illustrated that there was no single factor or any general factor that 

accounted for most of the variance in the independent and dependent variables. Thus, no 

common method bias variance issues were identified.  

The results of the hypotheses testing are shown in Table 4. Four hypotheses are found to be 

significant.  

Insert Table 4 here 

The results of Hypothesis 1 indicates that consumer attitude towards purchasing online is 

significant and positively related to consumer intentions to purchase online (β=.541, p=.014), 

therefore Hypothesis 1 is supported. Results of Hypothesis 2 indicate that perceived online 

risk is significant (β= -.209, p=.021) and negatively related to consumer attitude towards 

purchasing online, therefore, Hypothesis 2 is supported. Hypothesis 3 proposes that 

trustworthiness of the online vendor is positively related to consumer attitude towards 

purchasing online. However the result of this hypothesis is not significant (β=-.198 p=.158), 

therefore, Hypothesis 3 is not supported. The results of Hypothesis 4 show that trust in third 

party assurances is positively but marginally related to consumer attitude towards purchasing 

online (β= .259, p=.054), therefore, Hypothesis 4 is marginally supported. Hypothesis 5 

proposes that consumer propensity to trust is positively related to consumer intentions to 

purchase online. However the data indicates a significant relationship but in the opposite 

direction than hypothesized (β=-.485, p=.018), therefore, Hypothesis 5 is not supported. 

13 

 
The results of Hypothesis 6 indicate that the cultural environment of trust is positively and 

significantly related to intentions to purchase online (β=1.824, p=.000). Therefore, 

Hypothesis 6 is supported.  

Although the estimated model had a relatively good fit, there was a high correlation 

between two variables that were not tested in the model. The correlation matrix shows that 

trust in third party assurances and consumer intentions to purchase online have the highest 

correlation in the matrix. In order to further examine this link, a competing model was 

estimated to determine whether trust in third party assurances had a direct influence on 

consumer intentions to purchase online,. This competing model is depicted in Figure 2.  

Insert Figure 2 here 

The competing model shows a slightly better fit of the model (χ2/df=1.689, IFI=.917, 

TLI=.900, CFI=.915, and RMSEA=.063). In this model, four relationship paths are 

significant. First, similarly to the previous model, consumer attitude towards purchasing 

online (Hypothesis 1) is significant and positively related to intentions to purchase on the 

Internet (β=.381, p=.046). Perceived online risk (hypothesis 2) also remains significant and 

negatively related to consumer attitude towards purchasing online (β=-.212, p=.022). As with 

the first model, trustworthiness of the online vendor (hypothesis 3) is not significantly related 

to consumer intentions to purchase on the Internet (β=-.156, p=.244). Regarding hypothesis 4, 

when a hypothesized path is established between trust in third party assurances and consumer 

intention to purchase online, this relationship is positive and significant (β=.552, p=.000). 

However, in the original hypothesised path in model 1, which was marginally significant, the 

relationship between trust in third party assurances and consumer attitudes towards 

purchasing online becomes non significant (β=.231, p=.092). Thus trust in third party 

assurances is a factor that influences intentions, rather than attitudes. In the competing model, 

the relationship between propensity to trust and intention to purchase online (hypothesis 5) is 

14 

 
not significant (β=-.017, p=.858). Finally, cultural environment of trust (hypothesis 6) 

continues to be positive and significantly related to consumer intention to purchase online as 

in the previous model (β=.600, p=.004). 

5. Discussion and Conclusions 

5.1 Discussion of the findings 

Most prior research on online purchasing behaviour has focused predominantly on 

developed markets such as the U.S., Europe, parts of Asia and Australia. However, less 

consideration has been given to Internet purchase behaviour in regions such as Latin America. 

Such countries have lower technology readiness at both the firm and consumer level (Donoso 

and Crittenden, 2008) and e-commerce adoption by companies is slower (Grandón et al., 

2010; Nasco et al., 2008). The objective of our study was to investigate the role of trust and 

risk on Chilean consumers’ attitudes and intentions of purchasing online and to determine if 

the constructs used in western research are relevant for Latin American studies of this nature. 

Drawing upon extant literature and developed within a theoretical framework of TRA, a 

model was tested. The findings provide interesting insights into Internet purchase behaviour 

for Chilean consumers.  

Consistent with previous studies, Chilean consumers’ attitude towards purchasing online 

was positively related to their intentions to continue to purchase online. This finding is 

supported in other studies where attitude has an effect on intentions to continue purchasing on 

the Internet when participants had already previous experience of doing so (Hernández et al., 

2010). Thus, it can be argued that attitude towards a behaviour becomes less important with 

experience since it is more easily accessed from memory (Fazio and Zanna, 1981; Lee et al., 

2002).  

 Although all respondents in our study had purchased online at least once, they still 

perceive that the Internet environment is risky, which is consistent with prior research (e.g., 

15 

 
Bourlakis et al., 2008; Drennan et al., 2006; Kuhlmeier and Knight, 2005; McCole et al., 

2010; Ha and Coghill, 2008). It is noted, however, that this belief is only influential on their 

attitudes and is not a barrier to their intention to continue purchasing online, as is supported in 

other studies of online purchasers (e.g. (Andrews and Boyle, 2008; Forsythe et al., 2006). 

Previous studies suggest that the more experience with online purchasing people have, the 

less risk they perceive in the Internet in general (Forsythe et al., 2006; Wang et al., 2010). 

This could be the case in our study, especially since the beta weight for this variable is 

particularly large. All participants in our study are university educated, thus they would have 

more Internet experience through studying (Maldifassi and Canessa, 2010).  

Additionally, they are online purchasers, which suggests they have developed a level of 

initial trust with any website where they have purchased, as suggested in Wu et al (2010). 

Finally, it can be inferred that in our study the perceived benefits captured in the measure of 

attitude outweighs individuals’ perceptions of risk, which is also consistent with Gong (2009). 

She suggests that for Latin American people who have greater experience with the Internet 

and Internet purchasing, perceived risk would have a diminishing effect on their attitude 

towards online purchasing, and therefore on their intentions to continue this behaviour.   

It is also noted that trust in the online vendor was not significant in either of the models, 

although one would have expected it to be as suggested in both western research findings (e.g. 

Van den Poel and Leunis, 1999; Wu et al., 2010) and cross cultural findings (e.g. Jarvenpaa et 

al., 1999 and 2000). A partial explanation for this result could be that there are not very many 

online companies based in Chile, or that not many Chilean companies offer their customers 

online purchasing facilities at this present time (Grandón et al., 2010; Nasco et al., 2008). Wu 

et al., 2010 suggest that individuals use other factors to develop initial trust in a website to 

make their transaction, such as trust in third party assurance seals and website interactivity 

16 

 
features. While we did not test for website design features, many sites have features to 

enhance interactivity with visitors and return customers.  

Additionally, it is possible that our participants are familiar with the brand names of the 

websites as they may have visited them on previous occasions before deciding to make a 

purchase. For example, our sample tended to purchase online with well known domestic retail 

stores such as Falabella, Ripley, Jumbo, as well as the regional airline Lan, all which have 

been operating in the marketplace for over 50 years. This means that potentially they were 

well known brand names. If they are well known companies, a positive relationship might 

exist between store familiarity and other aspects of trust, such as reputation (Stranahan and 

Kosiel, 2007) as well as trust in third party assurances (Park et al., 2010). Wu et al, 2010 

found that such assurances were associated with initial trust when purchasing on unfamiliar 

websites in their experimental design. Moreover, the cross-cultural research (e.g. Cyr et al., 

2005; Gong, 2009) suggests that in collectivist cultures there is a high propensity to trust 

insiders and higher levels of trust among their own culture. 

Such assumptions are also supported by our findings for trust in third party assurances 

which in the first model had a marginal positive influence on attitudes. In the second model 

testing this variable it had a strong positive influence on intentions to purchase online. This 

finding provides insight into why trust in the online vendor might not be significant, in that 

Chilean consumers appear to actively trust these assurances, which are often external 

reassurances. Such inferences are supported as other studies suggest that third party 

assurances help to create consumer trust in Internet stores (e.g. Biswas and Biswas, 2004; 

Drennan et al., 2006; Wang et al., 2004), and are important for initial trust in a website (Wu et 

al., 2010). While findings in cross cultural research is somewhat mixed as to the value of third 

party assurance seals to increase perceptions of trust, our study adds support to those that 

17 

 
suggest having these seals on a website does have this benefit (e.g. Cheskin, 2000, cited in 

Cyr 2008; McCole et al. 2010; Park et al., 2010; Wu et al., 2010).    

Consumer propensity to trust does not have a significant effect on attitude or intention to 

continue purchasing online, however, cultural environment of trust is significant and 

positively influences intentions to continue to purchase online. It is acknowledged, however, 

that the findings in cross-cultural research regarding propensity to trust is equivocal at best. 

Wu et al. (2010) found no significance for this variable and initial trust in a website and they 

suggest that other factors such as third party assurance seals and website features may have 

displaced a propensity to trust. A possible explanation for these findings in our study could be 

that since our sample is more highly educated and experienced with the Internet they are also 

more sophisticated in terms of their propensity to trust as a personal characteristic. Moreover, 

it is noted that people in high trust cultures, such as Chile, tend to trust others in their culture, 

reflecting a cultural normative influence (e.g. Cheung and Lee, 2001; Gong, 2009). TRA 

specifies that normative influences impact on intentions to perform behaviour, more so than 

impacting attitudes. This finding bodes well for Chilean small to medium sized enterprises 

when considering adding online retailing channels to the existing business operations.  

6.2 Theoretical Contribution 

The main theoretical contribution of this study is the application of TRA in a developing 

country located in Latin America, helping to support the generalizability of theoretical models 

outside developed markets. Moreover, the findings of this study contribute to the ongoing 

generalizability of consumer-centric models of online purchasing behaviour. Specifically our 

study helps to extend research on perceived risk and trust online by extending the context to a 

Latin American country with high levels of collectivism and uncertainty avoidance.  Our 

findings test variables with good psychometrical properties developed in western studies in a 

Latin American context to examine their relevance to explain how these important factors 

18 

 
influence intentions to continue to purchase online. It will be noted in the findings that the 

variables that have the strongest explanatory power of Chilean consumers intentions, in 

addition to attitude (β=.381) are cultural environment of trust (β =.600) and third party 

assurances (β=.552). Perceived risk has a negative influence on attitudes only, thus it appears 

to be cancelled out by the stronger trust variables. Somewhat surprisingly, our study showed 

that trust in online vendors and a propensity to trust were not significant in our model. 

Whether these findings are indeed cultural differences for Latin American consumers needs to 

be treated with caution as our study is not a cross-cultural one. Therefore, further research that 

compares Chilean or other Latin American consumers’ perceptions of risk and trust is 

required. However, our study does create opportunities for interested researchers to further 

test these combinations of variables to gain further insights into their generalisability to a 

Latin American context.   

6.3 Managerial Contributions 

This study complements previous research on e-commerce adoption by SME managers in 

Latin America (Grandón et al., 2010; Nasco et al., 2008) by looking at the consumer 

perspective of online purchasing behaviour with a particular focus on perceptions of risk and 

trust. For marketing practitioners or SME managers, the findings provide tentative insights 

into which aspects of perceived risk and trust have the most influence on consumers’ 

intentions to continue purchasing. While it is widely accepted that perceived risk in the 

Internet environment is the major barrier, our results suggest that this is not insurmountable. 

The findings show that it has the least influence of all of the variables that significantly 

impact on attitudes or intentions to purchase online. Moreover perceived risk only influences 

attitudes and our results suggest that consumers have a sufficiently positive attitude towards 

purchasing online to overcome such perceptions. Trust in the online vendor and a propensity 

to trust proved to be insignificant in our model.  However, the findings for these two aspects 

19 

 
of risk should not be interpreted to mean that online companies should become complacent. 

Practitioners will note that the third party assurances are important and they should ensure 

that these seals are easily recognisable and clearly displayed on the Website. They must 

continue to allay their visitors’ and return customers’ concerns about the risks through 

actively creating and maintaining perceptions of trustworthiness in their role as the vendor 

and provider of secure transaction facilities.  

Since perceptions of risk and trust are often cited as the barriers to online purchasing, our 

findings do give hope to Latin American firms planning to move into the online retailing 

space.  Moreover, our findings may support Gong’s (2009) statement that a rapid diffusion of 

business to consumer e-commerce may be anticipated as consumers move passed the initial 

adoption stage and become more appreciative of the benefits that purchasing online provides.  

7. Limitations and Future research  

Regarding the limitations of this study, the sample derives from a database of university 

alumni, thus they are more educated than the general population in Chile. However, previous 

studies have identified that the higher the social class the more likely that consumers adopt 

technology and the more useful they perceived it to be (Maldifassi and Canessa, 2010). In 

contexts like Latin America, social class is also indicative of higher education, thus using an 

alumni database is considered appropriate for obtaining a sample to conduct a survey on 

online purchasing behaviour. A second limitation is that the study focuses on consumers’ 

perceptions of risk and trust towards purchasing online in a single country. As this is not a 

cross cultural study, while we may have found some evidence of possible cultural influences 

they should be treated with caution.   

Future research should focus on testing the external validity of these findings by 

replicating this study in other Latin American countries that have a large consumer take up of 

the Internet, for example Brazil and Mexico. Moreover, future research for online purchasing 

20 

 
behaviour in Latin America should include a sample of non-purchasers for comparison 

purposes. We also suggest that future studies should explore additional antecedents of online 

purchasing behaviour such as the role of perceived benefits and social norms. Finally, this 

research could be replicated in other developing country contexts from different continents 

such as South-East Asia and Africa as suggested in Wresch (2003). 

21 

 
References 

Anderson, J. C. & Gerbing, D. W. (1991), "Predicting the Performance of Measures in a 

Confirmatory Factor Analysis with a Pretest Assessment of Their Substantive 

Validities". Journal of Applied Psychology, 76, 732-740. 

Andrews, L. & Boyle, M. V. (2008), "Consumers’ accounts of perceived risk online and the 

influence of communication sources". Qualitative Market Research: an International 

Journal, 11, 59-75. 

Andrews, L., Kiel, G., Drennan, J., Boyle, M. & Werawardeena, J. (2007), "Gendered 

perceptions of experiential value in using Web-based retail channels". European 

Journal of Marketing, 41, 640-658. 

Bhatnagar, A. & Ghose, S. (2004), "Online information search termination patterns across 

product categories and consumer demographics". Journal of Retailing, 80, 221-228. 

Bhatnagar, A., M., S. & Rao, H. (2000), "On risk, convenience and Internet shopping 

behaviour". Association for Computing Machinery, Communications of the ACM, 43, 

98-121. 

Biswas, B. & Biswas, A. (2004), "The diagnostic role of signals in the context of perceived 

risk in online shopping: Do signals matter more on the Web?". Journal of Interactive 

Marketing, 18, 30-45. 

Bourlakis, M., Papagiannidis, S. & Fox, H. (2008), "E-Consumer Behaviour: Past, Present 

and Future Trajectories of an Evolving Retail Revolution". nternational Journal of E-

Business Research, 4, 64-76. 

Brislin, R. (1970), "Back Translation for Cross-Cultural Research". Journal of Applied 

Psychology, 1, 185-216. 

Chen, Y.-H. & Barnes, S. (2007), "Initial Trust and Online Buyer Behaviour". Industrial 

Management & Data Systems, 107, 21-36. 

22 

 
 
Cheung, C. M. K. & Lee, M. K. O. (2001), "Trust in Internet shopping: Instrument 

development and validation through classical and modern approaches". Journal of 

Global Information Management, 9, 23-35. 

Cyr, D. (2008) Website Design, Trust and Culture: An Eight Country Investigation. 

Proceedings of the Seventh Annual Workshop on HCI Research in MIS. Paris, France. 

Donoso, P. & Crittenden, V. L. (2008), "Strategic Management in Latin America". Journal of 

Business Research, 61, 587-589. 

Doolin, B., Dillon, S., Thompson, F. & Corner, J. L. (2005), "Perceived risk, the Internet 

shopping experience and online purchase behaviour: A New Zealand perspective". 

Journal of Global Information Management, 13, 66-88. 

Drennan, J., Previte, J. & Sullivan Mort, G. (2006), "Privacy, Risk Perception and Expert 

Online Behavior: An Exploratory Study of Household End Users". Journal of 

Organizational and End User Computing, 18, 1-22. 

Fazio, R. H. & Zanna, M. P. (1981) Direct experience and attitude-behavior consistency, 

Academic Press. 

Fishbein, M. & Ajzen, I. (1975) Belief, Attitude, Intention, and Behavior: An Introduction to 

Theory and Research, Reading, MA, Addison-Wesley. 

Forsythe, S., Liu, C., Shannon, D. & Gardner, L. C. (2006), "Development of a scale to 

measured perceived benefits and risks of online shopping". Journal of Interactive 

Marketing, 20, 55-75. 

Garbarino, E. & Strahilevitz, M. (2004), "Gender differences in the perceived risk of buying 

online and the effects of receiving a site recommendation". Journal of Business 

Research, 57, 768-775. 

Gong, W. (2009), "National culture and global diffusion of business to consumer e-

commerce". National culture and global diffusion, 16, 83-101. 

23 

 
Grandón, E., Nasco, S. & Mykytn, P. (2010), "Comparing theories to explain e-commerce 

adoption". Journal of Business Research, in press. 

Grau, J. (2010) US Retail E-Commerce Forecast: Room to Grow, EMarketer Reports, 

accessed at http://www.emarketer.com/Reports/All/Emarketer_2000672.aspx. 

Greenberg, R., Wong-on-Wing, B. & Lui, G. (2008), "Culture and Consumer Trust in Online 

Businesses". Journal of Global Information Management 16, 26-44. 

Ha, H. & Coghill, K. (2008), " Online shoppers in Australia: dealing with problesm". 

International Journal of Consumer Studies, 32, 5-17. 

Ha, S. & Stoel, L. (2009), "Consumer e-shopping acceptance: Antecedents in a technology 

acceptance acceptance model". Journal of Business Research, 62, 565-571. 

Head, M. & Hassanein, K. (2002), "Trust in e-Commerce: Evaluating the Impact of Third-

Party Seals". Quarterly Journal of Electronic Commerce, 3, 307-325. 

Hernández, B., Jimenez, J. & Martin, M. J. (2010), "Customer behaviour in electronic 

commerce: The moderating effect of e-purchasing experience". Journal of Business 

Research, 63, 964-971. 

Hofstede, G. (2001) Cultures consequences: Comparing values, behaviours, institutions and 

organisations, CA, Sage Publications. 

Jarvenpaa, S. L. & Tractinsky, N. (1999), "Consumer trust in an Internet store: a cross-

cultural validation". Journal of Computer Mediated Communication, 5. 

Jarvenpaa, S. L., Tractinsky, N. & Vitale, M. (2000), "Consumer trust in an Internet store". 

Information Technology and Management, 1, 45-71. 

Kim, D. J., Ferrin, D. L. & Rao, H. R. (2008), "A trust-based consumer decision-making 

model in electronic commerce: The role of trust, perceived risk, and their 

antecedents". Decision Support Systems, 44, 544-564. 

24 

 
Kuhlmeier, D. & Knight, G. (2005), "Antecedents to Internet-Based Purchasing: A 

Multinational Study". International Marketing Review, 22, 460-473. 

Lee, E.-J., Lee, J. & Schumann, D. W. (2002), "The influence of communication source and 

mode on consumer adoption of technological innovations". Journal of Consumer 

Affairs, 36, 1-28. 

Maldifassi, J. O. & Canessa, E. C. (2010), "Information technology in Chile: How perceptions 

and use are related to age, gender and social class". Journal of Business Research, 31, 

273-286. 

Mccole, P., Ramsey, E. & Williams, J. (2010), "Trust considerations on attitudes towards 

online purchasing: The moderating effect of privacy and security concerns". Journal 

of Business Research, 63, 1018-1024. 

Mcknight, D. H., Choudhury, V. & Kacmar, C. (2002), "Developing and Validating Trust 

Measures for e-Commerce: An Integrative Typology". Information Systems Research, 

13, 334-359. 

Mcknight, D. H., Kacmar, C. J. & Choudhury, V. (2004), "Dispositional Trust And Distrust 

Distinctions in Predicting High- and Low-Risk Internet Expert Advice Site 

Perceptions 

". e-Service Journal, 3, 35-55. 

Nasco, S., Grandon, E. E. & Mykytn, P. P. (2008), "Predicting electronic commerce adoption 

in Chilean SMEs". Journal of Business Research, 61, 697-705. 

Park, I., Bhatnagar, A. & Rao, H. R. (2010), "Assurance Seals, On‑Line Customer 

Satisfaction, and Repurchase Intention". International Journal of Electronic 

Commerce, 14, 11-34. 

25 

 
Podsakoff, P. M., Mackenzie, S. B., Lee, J.-Y. & Podsakoff, N. P. (2003), "Common Method 

Biases in Behavioral Research: A Critical Review of the Literature and Recommended 

Remedies". Journal of Applied Psychology, 88, 879-903. 

Podsakoff, P. M. & Organ, D. (1986), "Self-Reports in Organizational Research: Problems 

and Prospects". Journal of Management, 12, 531-543. 

Qureshi, I., Fang, Y., Ramsey, E., Mccole, P., Ibbotson, P. & Compeau, D. (2009), 

"Understanding online customer repurchasing intention and the mediating role of trust 

- an empirical investigation in two developed countries". European Journal of 

Information Systems, 18, 205. 

Rohm, A. J., Kashyap, V., Brashear, T. G. & Milne, G. R. (2004), "The use of online 

marketplaces for competitive advantage: a Latin American perspective". The Journal 

of Business and Industrial Marketing, 19, 372-385. 

Stranahan, H. & Kosiel, D. (2007), "E-tail spending patterns and the importance of online 

store familiarity". Internet Research, 17, 421-434. 

Tan, F., B. & Sutherland, P. (2004), "Online Consumer Trust: A Multi-Dimensional Model". 

Journal of Electronic Commerce in Organizations, 2:3, 40-58. 

Taylor, D. G. & Strutton, D. (2010), "Has e-marketing come of age? Modeling historical 

influences on post-adoption era Internet consumer behaviors". Journal of Business 

Research, 63, 950-956. 

Trendwatch, N. M. (2009), "Latin America accessed at 

http://www.newmediatrendwatch.com/regional-overview/104-latin-america on 9th 

March.". 

Urban, G. L., Amyx, C. & Lorenzon, A. (2009), "Online trust:  state of the art, new frontiers 

and research potential". Journal of Interactive Marketing, 23, 179-190. 

26 

 
Van Den Poel, D. & Leunis, J. (1999), "Consumer acceptance of the Internet as a channel of 

distribution". Journal of Business Research, 45, 249-256. 

Von Abrams, K. (2010) Retail E-Commerce in Western Europe, EMarketer Reports, accessed 

at http://www.emarketer.com/Reports/All/Emarketer_2000679.aspx on 29 June. . 

Wang, J., Gu, L. & Aiken, M. (2010), "A study of impact of individual differences on online 

shopping". International Journal of e-Business Research, 6, 52-67. 

Wang, S., Beatty, S. E. & Fox, W. (2004), "Signalling the trustworthiness of small online 

retailers". Journal of Interactive Marketing, 18, 53-69. 

Wresch, W. (2003), "Initial e-commerce efforts in nine least developed countries: A review of 

national infrasturcture, business appraoches andn product selection". Journal of Global 

Information Management, 11, 67-78. 

Wu, G., Hu, X. & Wu, Y. (2010), "Effects of perceived interactivity, perceived web assurance 

and disposition to trust on initial online trust". Journal of Computer Mediated 

Communication, 16, 1025 - 1032. 

Yang, Z. & Jun, M. (2002), "Consumer perception of e-service quality: from Internet 

purchaser and non-purchaser perspectives". Journal of Business Strategies, 19. 

27 

 
 
  
Consumer 
attitude towards 
online 
purchasing  

Consumer 
intention to 
purchase online 

H1 

Figure 1: Proposed Conceptual Model 1 

Perceived online 
risk 

Trustworthiness 
of the online 
vendor 

Trust on 3rd. 
party assurances 

Consumer 
propensity to 
trust 

Cultural 
environment of 
trust 

H2 

H3 

H4 

H5 

H6

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Demographic Information of Respondents 

Gender 

Age 

Marital status 

Highest Level of Education 

Main Occupation 

Female 
Male 
Total 
16 – 20 
21 – 25 
26 – 30 
31 – 35 
36 – 40 
41 – 45 
46 – 50 
51 – 55 
55 + 
Total 
Single no children 
Single with children 
Couple no children 
Couples with children 
Total 
Less than 10 years of schooling 
12 years of schooling 
Technical/vocational qualifications 
Undergraduate degree (bachelors) 
Diploma 
Masters 
Ph.D. or ABD 
Total 
Domestic/home duties 
Craft/tradesperson/factory work 
Office/clerical/administration 
Police/army 
Executive/manager 
Teacher/lecturer 
Retired 
Medical/nursing Information 
Technology 
Other 
Total 

n 
98 
78 
176 
  1 
12 
31 
56 
32 
21 
  9 
  9 
  5 
       176 
 48 
 12 
 32 
 84 
176 
  1 
  4 
  9 
58 
42 
59 
  3 
       176 
3 
0 
38 
4 
105 
11 
2 
6 
6 
11 
176 

Valid % 
55.7 
44.3 

  0.6 
  6.8 
17.6 
31.8 
18.2 
11.9 
  5.1 
  5.1 
  2.8 

27.9 
  7.0 
18.6 
46.5 

    0.1 
 2 
   5.1 
32.9 
23.9 
33.5 
  1.5 

  1.5 
0 
21.6 
2 
59.6 
  6.3 
  0.1 
  3.4 
  3.4 
  5.8 

29 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Construct Measures and CFA Results  

Constructs 

Sources              Indicators 

Consumer 
intention to  
purchase  
online 
(α = .957) 

Consumer 
Attitude 
towards online 
purchasing 
(α = .763) 

Measure from 
Andrews et al. 
(2007), 
adapted 
from 
Karahanna  
et al. (1999). 
Measure 
adapted  
From Oliver 
and  
Bearden 
(1985) 

I plan to continue using the Internet to make purchases in the next six 
months. 
It is likely that I will continue to sue the Internet to make purchases in  
the next six months 
I intend to continue using the Internet to make purchases in the next six 
months. 

Overall, I believe that using the Internet for purchasing is:  
bad/good 
is not useful/useful 
Is ineffective/effective 
Is very risky/not very risky 
Not easy/easy 

Consumer 
propensity to 
trust 
(α = .819) 

Measure 
adapted from 
Cheung and 
Lee (2001) 

It is easy for me to trust people and most things in my life                   
My tendency to trust people or things in my life is high 
I tend to trust people and things in my life even when I have little 
 knowledge about them 

Trustworthine
ss of the 
online vendor 
(α = .488) 

Measure 
adapted from  

Trust on 3rd. 
Party 
Assurances 
(α = .770) 

Measure 
adapted from  
Cheung and 
Lee (2001)  

Cultural 
environment 
of trust 
 (α = .523) 

Measure 
from Cheung 
and Lee 
(2001) 

Internet stores want to be known as vendors who keep their promises 
and commitments 
Online retailers have more to lose than to gain by not delivering on their 
promises or commitments 
Internet stores could not care less about servicing a person form Chile 
[R] 
There are many reliable third party certification bodies (entities) 
available for assuring the trustworthiness of the Internet stores  
I think third party certification bodies (entities) such as e-trust are doing 
a good job. 
Existing third party certification bodies (entities) are adequate for the 
protection of Internet shoppers’ interests. 
A high degree of trust exists in my family 
People in my community trust each other 
I live in a high trust society 

Perceived  
online risk 
(α = .822) 

Measure  
from 
Andrews et 
al.,  
(2007), 
adapted 
from 
Jarvenpaa 
et al. ( 2000).  

I feel safe making purchases on the Internet using my credit card [R] 
I feel safe giving my personal details to an online organization if  
requested [R] 
Compared with other ways of making purchases, I think that using the  
Internet is more risky. 
There is too much uncertainty associated with using the Internet to make 
purchases.  

*Std 
Estima
te 
.956 

.920 

.944 

.609 
.440 
.772 
.600 
.743 

.690 
.895 

.751 

.613 

.560 

.354 

.801 

.639 

.739 
.350 
.357 
.537 

.831 

.832 

.603 

.832 

30 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table 3: Means, Standard Deviations and Correlations  

INT 

ATT 

POR 

TOV 

TTA 

CPT 

CET 

Mean 
5.49 

5.65 

3.66 

5.33 

4.92 

4.17 

4.49 

Std. 
Dev. 
1.21 

0.90 

1.38 

1.14 

1.22 

1.39 

1.06 

INT 

ATT 

POR 

TOV 

TTA 

CPT 

CET 

1 

.377** 

-.569** 

.491** 

.747** 

.234** 

.390** 

.377** 

1 

-.398** 

.096 

.371** 

.132 

.251** 

-.569** 

-.398** 

1 

-.339** 

-.566** 

-.211**

-.271** 

.491** 

.096 

-.339** 

1 

.455** 

.747** 

.371** 

-.566** 

.455** 

1 

.087 

.093 

.234** 

.132 

.390** 

.251** 

-.211** 

-.271** 

.087 

.226 

.093 

1 

.265** 

.410** 

1 

.226 

.265** 

.410** 

**. Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed) 
*. Correlation is significant at the 0.05 level. 

Legend: INT=Intentions to purchase online, ATT=Attitude towards purchasing online, 
POR=Perceived online risk, TOV= Trustworthiness of the online vendor, TTA= Trust on 
third party assurances; CPT= Propensity to trust, CET= Cultural environment of trust 

31 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Results of Hypotheses Testing in Model 1 

Hypotheses  Path directions 

H1 
H2 
H3 
H4 

H5 
H6 

 
AT 
POR   
TOV   
 

TTA 

CPT   
CET   

INT 
AT 
AT 

AT   

INT 
INT 

Est. 

  .541 
-.209 
-.198 

St. 
Err. 
 .220 
.090 
.140   

  z 

p 

Result  

  2.459 
-2.315 
-1.413 

.014  Supported 
.021  Supported 
.158  Not Supported 

  .259 

.134 

  1.935 

.054 

Marginally 
Supported 

-.485 
1.824 

.204 
.419 

   -.373 
  4.333 

.018  Not Supported 
.000  Supported 

Legend: INT=Intentions to purchase online, ATT=Attitude towards purchasing online, 
POR=Perceived online risk, TOV= Trustworthiness of the online vendor, TTA= Trust on 
third party assurances; CPT= Propensity to trust, CET= Cultural environment of trust 

32 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Competing Model 2 

Perceived online 
risk 

Trustworthiness 
of the online 
vendor 

Trust on 3rd. 
party assurances 

Consumer 
propensity to 
trust 

Cultural 
environment of 
trust 

H2 

H3 

Consumer 
attitude towards 
online 
purchasing  

Consumer 
intention to 
purchase online 

H1 

H4a 

H4b 

H5 

H6

33 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Results of Competing Model 2 

Path directions 

Est. 

St. Err. 

  z 

ATT 

POR 

TOV 

TTA 

TPA 

CPT 

CET 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INT 

ATT 

ATT 

ATT 

INT 

INT 

INT 

  .381 

-.212 

-.156 

  .231 

  .552 

-.017 

  .600 

 .191 

.093 

.134   

.138 

.136 

.097 

.209 

  1.993 

-2.283 

-1.166 

  1.883 

  4.068 

  -.179 

  2.872 

p 

.046 

.022 

.244 

.092 

.000 

.858 

.004 

Legend: INT=Intentions to purchase online, ATT=Attitude towards purchasing online, 
POR=Perceived online risk, TOV= Trustworthiness of the online vendor, TTA= Trust on 
third party assurances; CPT= Propensity to trust, CET= Cultural environment of trust 

34 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
