Srijana Kumari Ghimire 

AN ANALYSIS OF THE FACTORS THAT INFLUENCE CONSUMERS’ 
DECISION-MAKING IN ONLINE SHOPPING 

A study of Mantra Craft Store in Nepal  

Thesis 
CENTRIA UNIVERSITY OF APPLIED SCIENCES 
Business Management  
November 2023 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT 

Centria University  
of Applied Sciences 

Date 
May 2024 

Author 
Srijana Kumari Ghimire 

Degree programme 
Bachelor of Business Administration, Business Management 
Name of thesis 
AN ANALYSIS OF THE FACTORS THAT INFLUNCE CONSUMERS’ DECI-SION-MAKING IN 
ONLINE SHOPPING - A study of Mantra Craft Store in Nepal 
Centria supervisor 
Katja Viiliäinen-Tyni 

Pages 
29 + 8 

The thesis aims to study the factors that influence the customers decision-making in online shopping. 
With the growing number of internet users around the world and the increasing popularity of online 
shopping due its convenience and time-saving feature, businesses have started to call them/label 
themselves and use different strategies to influence the decision making of the customers during 
online shopping. 

This thesis begins an extensive investigation intended to unravel the complex web of influences that 
direct customers in their online purchasing decisions, using the case study of Mantra Craft Store as a 
focal point. An excellent place to examine the many factors influencing customer decisions in the 
context of an e-commerce platform offering craft products is Mantra Craft Store, a well-known player 
in the online retail space. 

The research part of the thesis was done by using both qualitative and quantitative methods. The data 
were collected through an online survey and offline interview with people of Mantra Craft Store and e 
external digital marketing customers and experts in Nepal. 

The main objective of this research is to provide insight into the variety of elements influencing cus-
tomers' decision-making processes when they engage with the online store of Mantra Craft Store. 
Through exploring these factors, which include behavioural and psychological elements as well as 
technical developments and marketing tactics, this study aims to offer priceless insights for both aca-
demia and industry. 

Key words 
Branding, Customer Decision making, Digital Marketing, E-commerce, Online Shopping 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONCEPT DEFINITIONS 

CBE 

Consumer-based brand equity (CBE) is how these attitudes contact is towards your brand influence 

and the success of your business overall. 

M-commerce 

Mobile Commerce (M-Commerce) is a form of online shopping that enables users to access online 

shopping platforms without the use of a desktop computer. 

Tailored Marketing 

Tailored Marketing is the marketing strategy that customizes marketing messages to consumers based 

on their preferences and behaviours. 

Virtual Shopping 

Virtual shopping refers to an e-commerce service that allows customers to browse and purchase items 

online. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
CONCEPT DEFINITIONS 
CONTENTS 

1 INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................................................ 1 
1.1 Aims of the Study ........................................................................................................................... 2 
1.2 Objectives of the Study .................................................................................................................. 2 

2 ONLINE SHOPPING .......................................................................................................................... 3 
2.1 Overview of Online Shopping ....................................................................................................... 3 
2.1.1 Evolution of the shopping experience of Customers .......................................................... 3 
2.1.2 Influential factors during online shopping ......................................................................... 4 
2.1.3 Use of Technology for Online Shopping ............................................................................. 5 
2.2 Factors affecting customer decisions in online shopping. ........................................................... 5 

3 CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR IN ONLINE SHOPPING .................................................................. 7 
3.1 Digital Marketing for Online Shopping ....................................................................................... 7 
3.2 Trends and Statistics on online shopping ..................................................................................... 8 
3.3 Consumer Decision Making during online shopping .................................................................. 8 
3.3.1 Problem Recognition ............................................................................................................ 9 
3.3.2 Purchase Decision making of Customer. .......................................................................... 10 
3.3.3 Cultural and Technological factor .................................................................................... 10 
3.3.4 Post purchase evaluation .................................................................................................... 11 

4 DATA ANALYSIS ............................................................................................................................. 13 
4.1 Research Methodology ................................................................................................................. 13 
4.2 Research Design ........................................................................................................................... 14 
4.3 Data Procedure/Method .............................................................................................................. 14 
4.3.1 Case Study Approach ......................................................................................................... 14 
4.4 Analysis of Survey Data ............................................................................................................... 15 
4.4.1 Basic Information of Respondents .................................................................................... 15 
4.4.2 Factors affecting the online shopping experience of customers. .................................... 24 
4.4.3 Interviews with Mantra Handicraft Stakeholder ............................................................ 25 

5 FINDINGS .......................................................................................................................................... 26 
5.1 Mantra Handicraft Overview ..................................................................................................... 26 
5.2 Decision Factors ........................................................................................................................... 26 
5.2.1 Product Quality and Pricing .............................................................................................. 27 
5.2.2 Trustworthiness and User Experience .............................................................................. 27 

6 DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION ............................................................................................... 29 

REFERENCES ........................................................................................................................................ 9 
APPENDICES 

FIGURES 

FIGURE 1. Distribution of gender .......................................................................................................... 16 

FIGURE 2. Distribution of Age .............................................................................................................. 16 

 
 
 
 
FIGURE 3. Representing the number of times that customers shop in e-commerce stores ................... 17 

FIGURE 4. Representing the scale that customer brands present in online and physical stores ............ 17 

FIGURE 5. Representation of Convenience of online shopping to customers ....................................... 18 

FIGURE 6. Representation of e-commerce sites usefulness to customers ............................................. 19 

FIGURE 7. Representation of factors that matters to customer while online shopping ......................... 19 

FIGURE 8. Representation of the digital marketing on the customer purchasing ................................. 19 

FIGURE 9. Representation of the customers interaction with customer support of a brand .................. 20 

FIGURE 10. Representation of the customers who follow brand social media for updates .................. 21 

FIGURE 11. Representation of the customers who bought being influenced by online ads .................. 21 

FIGURE 12. Representation of customers who feel safe during online transaction .............................. 22 

FIGURE 13. Representation of the customers who faced an issue during online shopping .................. 22 

FIGURE 14. Representation of customer’s opinion on online shopping. .............................................. 23 

FIGURE 15. Representation of customers view on traditional shopping. .............................................. 23 

FIGURE 16. Representation of customer’s choice between online and physical shopping. .................. 24 

 
 
 
 
 
1 INTRODUCTION 

1 

Online shopping has become an important part of consumers behaviour in a world where the digital 

revolution has completely changed the nature of trade. This thesis is a study on the complex network of 

factors that determine consumers' choices when they purchase online. The way people connect, com-

municate, and make purchases in the online marketplace has changed dramatically because of the devel-

opment of e-commerce platforms and the widespread integration of technology into people’s lifestyles. 

A significant change in consumer behaviour, particularly around online shopping, has been sparked by 

the digital age (Shrestha 2016, 48). The thesis examines the various factors influencing consumers' de-

cision-making procedures in this ever-changing world of the Internet. Thakur (2023, 60) discusses the 

widespread  use  of  e-commerce  platforms  the  constantly  changing  technology  landscape  hanged  how 

people search, evaluate, and ultimately select goods and services in online marketplaces. Understanding 

how complex numbers influence these choices is not only related to school and learning but also a need 

for companies looking to stay ahead and competitive in constantly changing business scenarios. 

Online shopping has totally changed and improved the thinking and expanded market reach worldwide, 

thus becoming an extremely important aspect for today's consumers throughout the world. Yan and Dai 

(2009, 89) state that the internet has provided a different shopping experience in various ways to con-

sumers, as there are many more benefits for consumers to purchase online. For instance, they can buy 

products without the limit of space and time, and they can access more information than ever before 

with the help of search engines and other exploration tools on the internet, and thus consumers will feel 

more joyful and active during the online purchase process. This thesis dives deeply into these influencing 

elements, concentrating on Mantra Handicraft, the well-known online marketplace for Nepali statues 

and handicrafts.  

The development of internet shopping has completely changed how people interact with goods and de-

cide what to buy. The shift in customer behaviour can be caused by the advent of online markets. Con-

venience, accessibility, and a wide range of offers. Considering this, Mantra Handicraft stands out as a 

significant participant in the international online market for Nepali artworks, establishing a name for 

itself via its distinctive and genuine products. Not only is it interesting from an educational perspective 

but it also has applications for companies in related markets.  

 
 
 
 
  
  
2 

1.1 Aims of the Study 

The thesis seeks to achieve several important goals. First and foremost, it aims to pinpoint the main 

variables that impact customers’ choices when they purchase products/services online. The thesis aims 

to conduct a thorough examination of the various strategies implemented by Mantra Handicraft to satisfy 

the varied requirements and inclinations of its worldwide customers. In the context of Nepali handicraft, 

it seeks to evaluate the influence of cultural, social, and technological aspects on consumer online shop-

ping behaviour. The study also aims to offer insightful analysis and suggestions that will not only benefit 

companies,  especially  Mantra  Handicraft,  but  will  also  significantly  improve  the  conversation  about 

consumer behaviour in the ever- changing business scenarios.  

The central chapter of the thesis presents the research and an examination of the variables influencing 

customer behaviour in relation to Mantra Handicraft. This offers an insightful analysis of the complexity 

of consumer behaviour by making links between theoretical frameworks and facts. This part offers an 

insightful analysis of the details of consumer behaviour. This section then shifts to a discussion of the 

implications drawn from the research findings and provides useful advice for companies that operate in 

the internet market for cultural and artistic goods, especially in the Nepali handicraft market.   

1.2 Objectives of the Study 

The objective of the thesis is to study the factors influencing customer decisions in online shopping and 

the type of strategy that the business uses to influence those decisions through the forms like digital 

marketing. 

The thesis will further discover the factors that affect the decision and behaviour of consumers to pur-

chase any products of a company in the phase of online shopping by case-studying Mantra Craft Store. 

It will also study the theories used by companies to influence the decision to purchase their products and 

the way digital marketing is influencing consumers’ perceptions of Mantra Craft. The thesis also studies 

the current habits of customers who shop digitally and the motives of companies behind branding, digital 

marketing,  and  online  campaigns.  This  gives  a  clear  sight  of  the  factors  that  influence  the  decision-

making process in online shopping from a customer and business perspective. 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
2 ONLINE SHOPPING 

3 

Online shopping, which we may do form our computers or mobile devices, is the act of purchasing goods 
over the internet. The internet’s rapid growth has transformed business sales, leading to the rise of online 
shopping, enabling customers to research, choose, and purchase goods and services globally. 

2.1 Overview of Online Shopping 

The increasing use of the internet has caused a revolution in the way businesses conduct their sales, 

which has resulted in the rise and rapid growth of online shopping. Online shopping is made possible by 

e-commerce platforms, and it is the process by which customers investigate, choose, and buy goods and 

services using the internet. This method of purchasing provides consumers with ease by removing geo-

graphical restrictions and putting a wide range of goods and services at their fingertips. Online shopping 

has transformed traditional business dynamics globally, forcing firms and customers to adjust to this 

new digital paradigm (Sagar 2024,12). Online shopping has become a habit of people’s purchasing be-

haviours across a wide range of demographics and geographic regions in today’s time due to its acces-

sibility, convenience of use, availability anytime, automatic recommendations, and variety of payment 

alternatives. 

Online purchasing has been expanding in Nepal, with its own special qualities and limitations (Vaidya 

2019, 72). On this growing platform, the Mantra Craft Store occupies a specialised space in the country’s 

growing e-commerce industry. Understanding the elements that affect consumers' decisions when they 

shop online, particularly within the website of the Mantra Craft Store, is crucial as Nepal continues to 

learn new technology and ways and sees a rise in the percentage of its population using the internet. To 

better understand the complexities of consumer behaviour, this study looks at how cultural, social, and 

economic  variables  interact  to  influence  consumers'  preferences  and  decisions  when  they  purchase 

online at Mantra Craft Store. 

2.1.1 Evolution of the shopping experience of Customers 

The act of shopping, which was formerly limited to physical businesses and marketplaces, has undergone 

a remarkable transformation with the development of technology and the internet. The history of virtual 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 

shopping dates to the early 1990s, while eBay and Amazon were start-ups in e-commerce, showing the 

world a new way to do business and shop. This change marked the beginning of a spectacular shift in 

consumer behaviour as people began to discover how suitable it was to buy products and services online, 

overcoming time and location barriers (Rai & Rai 2020).  

Online shopping started with the growing use of smartphones, increased internet users, the development 

of different forms of online payment, and the development of websites, which introduced people to e-

commerce  and  its  idea,  then  transformed  the  way  people  buy  and  sell  goods  and  services  (Shrestha, 

2016). The COVID-19 epidemic served to advance the pace of internet purchasing as social distance 

and lockdown measures forced people to turn to digital channels for their requirements. Online shopping 

is becoming an essential part of the modern consumer's lifestyle, providing them with a wide range of 

products and services at their fingertips and with effortlessness. This transformation is still going on and 

will develop more in the future. Understanding the history of purchasing is essential to appreciating the 

many factors that influence consumers' choices when it comes to online shopping and selling. 

2.1.2 Influential factors during online shopping 

The user experience when purchasing online is shaped by a variety of circumstances, but a few essential 

components stand out as crucial influences for decision shaping. First, a key component becomes appar-

ent: the function of website usability and interface (Manandhar & Chalise, 2023). The user experience 

is greatly impacted by the visual attractiveness, intuitive design, and simplicity of navigation on the site. 

Research suggests that user-friendly interfaces, easily understandable product details, and quick and easy 

checkout procedures have a big impact on customers' opinions and likelihood of buying. Secondly, the 

influence of the social component on consumer behaviour. Thakur (2023, 60) discusses how user-gen-

erated material, reviews, and ratings are examples of social evidence that has a significant impact on 

purchasing decisions. Positive evaluations and testimonials frequently work as a potent validation mech-

anism,  building  potential  customers'  trust  and  confidence  and  influencing  their  decisions  during  the 

shopping journey.  

It is impossible to overstate the role that targeted and tailored marketing methods have in shaping con-

sumers' online purchasing habits. Customised offers, recommendations, and ads that are based on user 

browsing history and interests have a significant impact on influencing users to purchase goods or ser-

vices.  The  convergence  of  social  validation,  tailored  marketing,  and  user-friendly  interfaces  shapes 

 
 
 
 
online shoppers' decision-making processes and highlights the complex interactions between technolog-

ical, social, and psychological components in the virtual economy. 

5 

2.1.3 Use of Technology for Online Shopping 

Technology has emerged as the key component of the online buying experience, transforming how cus-

tomers engage with and move through the online store. The way that e-commerce operates has changed 

because of the incorporation of cutting-edge technology like machine learning, augmented reality, and 

artificial intelligence in their online stores (Li 2023, 708). Personalized recommendations and predictive 

analytics are powered by AI-driven algorithms, which improve the shopping experience by making cus-

tomized  product  recommendations  based  on  user  preferences  and  historical  activity.  Moreover,  the 

emergence  of  augmented  reality  (AR)  technology  has  eliminated  the  distinction  between  traditional 

brick-and-mortar and virtual shopping by enabling customers to digitally view things in authentic envi-

ronments.  This  reduces  uncertainty  regarding  dimensions,  hue,  and  appropriateness  before  making  a 

purchase. 

The  landscape  of  online  purchasing  has  irreversibly  changed  due  to  the  widespread  usage  of  mobile 

devices. With its easy accessibility and convenience, mobile commerce (m-commerce) has taken off, 

providing customers with anytime, anywhere access to the things that customer wants. Convenient mo-

bile applications and safe payment gateways have made transactions easy and accelerated the decision-

making process (Sherali, 2014). Furthermore, the incorporation of chatbots and virtual assistants has 

improved the whole shopping experience by providing prompt customer help, direction, and real-time 

query resolution. Online shopping and technology have a symbiotic relationship that is always changing, 

influencing customer tastes and behaviour in the virtual marketplace. 

2.2 Factors affecting customer decisions in online shopping. 

When it comes to online shopping, customers' purchasing decisions are still heavily influenced by pric-

ing.  Competitive  prices  or  captivating  discounts  frequently  work  as  strong  inducements,  influencing 

customers to choose specific goods or services. According to (NewtonX, Dec 2023), price sensitivity 

has a big influence on consumer behaviour. Before making a purchase, many customers actively look 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 

for discounts, flash specials, or comparable prices across several websites. Pricing has a significant in-

fluence on consumers' impression of value for money, and they often consider it while choosing among 

the countless options that are accessible online. 

Having access to thorough product details and user feedback and evaluations is crucial when it comes 

to influencing customers' decisions to buy online. When evaluating a product's suitability and quality, 

consumers mostly rely on thorough descriptions, technical details, and visual content. Additionally, peer 

evaluations and ratings offer insightful perspectives into other customers' actual experiences, which has 

a big impact on confidence and trust in the purchase of a customer (Chen, Samaranayake, Cen, Qi & 

Lan, 2022). While bad reviews can discourage potential consumers, they also serve as a catalyst, en-

couraging reluctant buyers to complete their transactions and highlighting the importance of user-gen-

erated material in the decision-making process. 

The online shopping platform's reliability and convenience have a significant impact on the decisions 

made by customers. A favourable purchasing experience is greatly enhanced by elements like easy-to-

use interfaces, safe payment channels, hassle-free return policies, and dependable customer service. Plat-

forms that provide smooth navigation, smooth checkout procedures, and guarantees about the protection 

of their personal and financial data are typically preferred by customers (Maharjan & Khadka, 2017). 

Furthermore, well-known companies or platforms that have a track record of dependability and quick 

service build confidence, which encourages repeat business and influences prospective clients' decision-

making. 

 
 
 
3 CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR IN ONLINE SHOPPING 

7 

Technology and the rapid advancement of the internet have drastically changed the business industry 

and revolutionised how customers make purchases. Online shopping is becoming more and more popu-

lar as an e-commerce platform, and is growing in popularity because of its easy accessibility, ease of 

use, time-saving features, and availability of a wide range of products (Statista, 2023). This change has 

led academics and researchers to investigate a wide range of variables that affect customers' decision-

making when it comes to internet shopping. 

Online business and shopping must face the traditional way of buying goods, which has been established 

as a habit among customers since ancient times. Traditional consumer behaviour theories cannot explain 

their online purchases effectively (Yan & Dai, 2009). Offline shopping gives customers assurance and 

confidence in the products they buy while the online environment offers a new way, to create, develop, 

and manage services offered to online grocery customers (Bauerova, 2018). 

3.1 Digital Marketing for Online Shopping 

Digital marketing acts as a catalyst to influence consumers' decision-making processes, and it is crucial 

in determining how online customer behaviour is shaped. Digital marketing aims to provide a smooth 

and appealing purchasing experience with targeted advertising campaigns, tailored recommendations, 

and  clever  content  placement.  Marques  (2019,  7)  discuss  that  the  brands  use  a  variety  of  platforms, 

including social media, email marketing, and search engines, to interact with customers several times 

during their online buying process. Comprehending the workings of digital marketing tactics is crucial 

when analysing the factors that influence consumers' decisions to buy when they shop online. 

Personalisation is a major component of digital marketing for online retailers. The decision-making pro-

cess is greatly influenced by customised ads and product recommendations based on consumer behav-

iour, tastes, and demographics (Wright, 2024). Customising recommendations and fostering a feeling of 

personalised attention are made possible by algorithms that examine previous purchases, browsing his-

tory, and interactions. Targeted marketing campaigns also try to predict customer demands by offering 

pertinent goods or services at the appropriate time, which influences customers' decisions by creating a 

sense of relevance and connection. 

 
 
 
 
 
8 

Effective online marketing techniques in the digital era are based on building consumer trust and en-

gagement by capturing their attention. Trust is strengthened by interesting and eye-pleasing contents, 

sincere evaluations, interactive features, and open communication regarding the calibre and timeliness 

of  the  products  (Isa,  Yusoff,  Rasli  &  Khan,  2015).  Additionally,  establishing  an  online  community 

through influencer partnerships and social media participation raises brand awareness and develops a 

devoted following of customers. Determining the elements that eventually help customers make wise 

selections when it comes to online shopping requires an understanding of how these digital marketing 

initiatives affect consumer trust and engagement. 

3.2 Trends and Statistics on online shopping 

The popularity of online shopping has increased dramatically in recent years, and impressive records 

and data show how consumer behaviour is changing globally in terms of tastes and habits. With more 

than 5 billion people, the number of individuals using the internet to make transactions is constantly 

rising.  Retail  e-commerce  sales  are  expected  to  surpass  5.7  trillion  USD  globally  in  2022,  and  this 

amount will only rise in the future (Statista, 2022).  Online shopping adoption was further improved by 

the pandemic-induced shift in consumer behaviour, as seen by a considerable increase in the number of 

first-time online buyers across a range of demographics. Furthermore, research shows that mobile com-

merce (m-commerce) is constantly growing, with smartphones and other portable devices accounting 

for a sizable share of internet transactions. 

With over 15.85 million internet users (Datareportal, 2023), Nepal is the 93rd largest market for eCom-

merce, with a predicted revenue of US$603.1 million by 2023 (ECDE, 2023). Understanding these trends 

is pivotal in analysing the factors that influence consumers' decision-making processes in online shop-

ping environments like the Mantra Craft Store in Nepal. 

3.3 Consumer Decision Making during online shopping 

When it comes to internet shopping, consumers make decisions based on a wide range of factors. Before 

making a purchase, customers go through several behavioural, emotional, and cognitive processes (Lee, 

& Lee 2009). The process of making decisions frequently begins with the identification of a need or 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 

want, which is followed by the gathering of information and consideration of available options. In the 

digital realm, this stage entails exploring diverse e-commerce platforms and contrasting products ac-

cording to factors such as cost, calibre, feedback, and the reputation of the business. Convenience, ac-

cessibility, and website usability are examples of factors that significantly impact how consumers per-

ceive products and make decisions (Maharjan & Khadka, 2017). Moreover, the decision-making process 

is significantly influenced by social factors, including online reviews, recommendations from peers, and 

social media interactions. Customers frequently look to these outside indications to confirm their deci-

sions and lessen the perceived danger of doing business online. 

There are few situational and psychological aspects affecting the purchasing choice of a customer. Indi-

vidual preferences, attitudes, motives, and perceptions influenced by past experiences and cultural back-

grounds are all considered psychological influences (Rai & Rai, 2020). The situational elements are also 

very important in completing the transaction, such as time limits, special deals, and the urgency of the 

requirement. Comprehending the complicated interactions among these elements is crucial for decipher-

ing the intricacies of consumer choice in the e-commerce domain, specifically concerning the Mantra 

Craft Store situated in Nepal. The purpose of this investigation is to learn more about these factors and 

how they affect consumer behaviour in this e-commerce setting. 

3.3.1 Problem Recognition 

Online shopping offers accessibility and convenience, but there are still several problems and difficulties 

in  this  digital  retail  environment.  The  matter  of  privacy  and  security  is  one  major  worry.  Customers 

frequently voice concerns about the safety of their credit card information, personal information, and the 

possibility of online fraud (Bajracharya, & Chatterjee, 2023). Consumer trust in online transactions is 

impacted by cybersecurity threats, data breaches, and the unlawful use of personal data, all of which 

remain serious concerns (Maharjan, Devkota, Mahapatra, Padda, Dhakal, Mahato, Khanal, Parajuli, Pau-

del, & Bhattrai, 2022). Another issue is that there is no physical interaction with things prior to buying. 

Based only on online descriptions and photographs, consumers find it difficult to determine the quality, 

size, or authenticity of products, which can cause unhappiness upon shipment and increase the number 

of product returns and exchanges. The difference between the perceived product and the actual delivered 

item can result in a loss of trust and credibility for the e-commerce platform. 

 
 
 
 
 
10 

Customer discontent is also influenced by practical problems, including complicated return procedures, 

expensive shipping, and delayed deliveries. Uncertainties about delivery schedules and possible extra 

costs frequently make internet purchasing less enjoyable overall. Moreover, the lack of tailored aid or 

prompt customer service when addressing questions or grievances makes customers even more irate. 

These issues affect overall customer happiness and loyalty to online shopping platforms, posing diffi-

culties for both customers and online retailers. It is vital to comprehend and tackle these concerns to 

improve the virtual shopping encounter and cultivate customer trust, especially in relation to the Mantra 

Craft Store located in Nepal. This investigation looks at ways to lessen these issues and enhance con-

sumers' entire online shopping decision-making process. 

3.3.2 Purchase Decision making of Customer. 

Customers make decisions based on an energetic interaction of several cognitive, emotional, and rela-

tional elements that influence their purchasing decisions, when it comes to online shopping. Online re-

sources provide a wealth of information, enabling users to peruse product narratives, evaluations, and 

comparisons  between  numerous  brands  and  traders  (Hussain  &  Rehman,  2018).  This  lengthy  search 

stage is essential for creating selections and awareness, which in turn affects the attitudes and purposes 

of customers on the way to goods and services. Online shopping's availability and facility of use help to 

overview this process by letting customers easily browse through a vast range of options from the com-

fort of their homes or any other place with internet access. Public influences like recommendations from 

friends, famous people, or internet reviews have a remarkable impact on how consumers make decisions. 

Psychological elements include individual preference, observation of value, and product loyalty. 

3.3.3 Cultural and Technological factor 

Customer habits and preferences are greatly influenced by cultural and technological factors that are 

deeply ingrained in the dynamics of online buying decision-making. Cultural influences, which have 

their roots in society norms, values, and customs, have a significant impact on consumer decision-mak-

ing (Hussain & Rehman, 2018). When it comes to shopping online at the Mantra Craft Store in Nepal, 

cultural influences include things like distinct tastes in artisanal craftsmanship, regional customs, and 

product or design preferences. It is extremely important for online stores to understand and go along 

with these culturally small but important things to properly serve the preferences of Nepalese customers. 

Furthermore, the environment of online shopping is always changing due to technological advancement 

 
 
 
 
 
 
11 

and growth. Consumers' access to online platforms and their overall online purchasing experience are 

directly impacted by factors including internet penetration, mobile device usage, and the availability of 

high-speed connectivity. Thakur (2023) explains how customers' decision-making processes in the dig-

ital marketplace are greatly influenced by important technological variables such as website responsive-

ness, ease of navigation, and integration of secure payment channels. 

Furthermore, the influence on consumer behaviour is further amplified by the convergence of culture 

and technology. For example, social media platforms' acceptance as powerful avenues for peer recom-

mendations and product discovery combines technological developments with cultural indoctrination. 

Consumer decision-making in Nepal is influenced by the interaction between new technological devel-

opments and strongly rooted cultural values. Online retailers face both opportunities and challenges be-

cause of this fusion, which makes it necessary to have a sophisticated grasp of how cultural and techno-

logical elements interact to shape consumers (Aryal, 2021). To provide insights on customising methods 

that align with the cultural norms and technology preferences of Nepalese consumers and eventually 

influence their decision-making processes, this analysis aims to untangle the complexities resulting from 

these intersections. 

3.3.4 Post purchase evaluation 

The  completion  of  a  transaction  does  not  mean  that  an  online  shopper's  trip  ends;  instead,  it  pushes 

businesses into a crucial stage called post-purchase analysis. In this stage, the customer evaluates the 

good or service they have purchased by comparing their expectations with the real experience they had. 

Post-purchase assessment includes a few factors, such as customer service, delivery experience, product 

quality, and general satisfaction with the online purchasing transaction (UKEssays, 2018). Online con-

sumers frequently form opinions about a company by contrasting the benefits they expected from it with 

the actual value they received. These opinions have a big impact on their future purchasing decisions 

and brand loyalty. The ease with which this assessment process may be started online with  reviews, 

ratings,  and  feedback  methods  enables  customers  to  share  their  experiences,  adding  to  the  pool  of 

knowledge for future purchasers and impacting their decisions. 

The post-purchase assessment is a critical factor in determining consumer happiness and loyalty. Good 

post-purchase  experiences  encourage  brand  promotion  and  favourable  word-of-mouth  recommenda-

 
 
 
 
 
  
12 

tions, in addition to strengthening consumer trust in the e-commerce platform (Dejsiriphun & Suvirat-

vithaya, 2011). On the other hand, any disparities between what is expected and what is delivered might 

cause discontent, which could harm the brand's reputation and discourage customers from making addi-

tional purchases. Knowing the subtleties of post-purchase evaluation is essential in the context of Nepal's 

Mantra Craft Store. To improve the current online shopping experience and develop long-lasting rela-

tionships with customers that will impact their decision-making in future online purchases, it is critical 

to analyse customer feedback, satisfaction levels, and post-purchase experiences (Gelhever, 2022). The 

goal of this analysis is to learn more about the consequences of post-purchase assessments and their 

significance in shaping consumer behaviours within the online shopping landscape. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
4 DATA ANALYSIS 

13 

For  the  data  and  analysis,  I  have  relied  on  both  primary  and  secondary  sources.  The  primary  source 

includes  respondents  from  Mahendra  Dhamala  (Founder),  Laxman  Dhamala  (Marketing  Executive), 

Shree Krishna Poudyal (Frieght Executive), and Shreeza Lama (Store Handler) at Mantra Craft Store. 

The secondary sources include the articles, these papers, research data, etc. 

4.1 Research Methodology 

The research part is the most crucial parameter that will help to produce results on a specific topic. The 

selection of a better research approach is vital to handling the empirical part of the research. According 

to Kothari (2004, 1), research comprises defining and redefining problems, formulating hypotheses or 

suggested solutions; collecting, organising, and evaluating data; making deductions and reaching con-

clusions;  and,  at  last,  carefully  testing  the  conclusions  to  determine  whether  they  fit  the  formulating 

hypothesis. 

The thesis follows a methodical approach to offer a thorough investigation of the factors affecting con-

sumers’ choices when they shop online, with a particular emphasis on Mantra Handicraft, a well-known 

Nepali traditional marketplace. The basis is provided, which offers an extensive analysis of pertinent 

research  on  how  consumers  make  decisions  when  they  shop  online.  Expanding  upon  this  theoretical 

framework, it explores the methodological details utilised in this study, providing a thorough examina-

tion of the techniques for data collection and analysis.  

The thesis uses both qualitative and quantitative data. The semi-structured interview research approach 

was used to conduct the qualitative portion of this study. One very effective instrument for the research 

technique is the interview. The interview can give the researcher more in-depth information, and the 

researcher can follow up with further questions to seek further clarification or answers to questions re-

lated to the study subject. On the other hand, the Mantra Craft store's data record and secondary sources 

provided the quantitative data. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 

4.2  Research Design 

The main technique used to collect data for a qualitative study design was an in-person and online inter-

view. Utilising data analysis, the information gathered from the various respondents was made quanti-

tative. Interview questions were used to collect data from the chosen respondents from the Mantra Craft 

Store. To provide the most thorough data collection, the study participants were given a self-administra-

tion questionnaire with both closed- and open-ended items. 

Understanding the quantitative data in the context of its application was the goal of the data collection. 

Mantra Craft provided the required qualitative and quantitative information. The necessary additional 

quantitative data was obtained from reliable internet sources. 

4.3 Data Procedure/Method 

For the thesis, both the primary and secondary data have been used to identify the findings. The findings 

were then used to compare them with those of other researchers. Primary data was collected from five 

people involved in and working in the Mantra Craft business. The sources were guided interviews, both 

personal and online, as well as questionnaires that can be filled out during the interview for objective 

and short-answer questions.  

The sources of primary data were experienced working in e-commerce businesses, Experienced dealing 

with  customers  who  shop  through  online,  with  digital  marketing  and  branding  while  the  secondary 

sources were research journals and other published articles. Data from other similar studies is leveraged 

in  the  study  as  well.  The  other  sources  were  published  research  journals  from  different  universities, 

relevant reports on the behaviour of customers, and published data on brand reach and effect. 

4.3.1 Case Study Approach 

An interesting topic for a case study method to comprehend the variables influencing consumers' deci-

sion-making processes in the domain of online shopping is the Mantra Craft Store in Nepal. Mantra Craft 

is a singular entity in Nepal's e-commerce scene, demonstrating the marriage of internet shopping, arti-

sanal workmanship, and cultural heritage. A Mantra Craft case study provides an opportunity to explore 

the complexities of customer behaviour in a niche market in detail. The investigation of this e-commerce 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 

platform enables a thorough analysis of the interactions among cultural factors, technological advance-

ments, and consumer preferences. This case study, which focuses on Mantra Craft, seeks to clarify the 

complications resulting from the combination of traditional craftsmanship with contemporary internet 

retail practices, shedding light on how these factors shape and guide consumer decision-making pro-

cesses. 

In addition, using a case study approach for Mantra Craft offers a thorough comprehension of the pro-

spects and difficulties specific to this specific e-commerce platform. The research can take on multiple 

forms, such as evaluating the impact of cultural nuances on product selections, studying consumer feed-

back, analysing browsing and purchase activities, and assessing the efficiency of technological interfaces 

in promoting consumer involvement. This thesis aims to close the gap between theoretical frameworks 

and practical implications by using a case study methodology for Mantra Craft. It does this by providing 

insightful analysis and strategic recommendations for improving the online shopping experience at Man-

tra Craft and possibly influencing more general e-commerce practices within the Nepalese context. 

4.4 Analysis of Survey Data 

The survey prepared for the research was first tested among the company employees and colleagues to 

determine  whether  the  question  was  reliable  for  thesis  research  and  understandable.  The  survey  was 

posted through google forms and 33 customers participated. The survey questionnaire was divided into 

two different sections, A and B. Section A accounts for general demographic data and an overview of 

online shopping; Section B inquiries about the customer shopping experience and the factors that affect 

their purchase decision. 

4.4.1 Basic Information of Respondents 

1.  Gender (N=33) 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
16 

Figure 1: Distribution of gender 

As Figure 1 illustrates, 45.5% of the respondents were male and the rest of 54.5% were female. The 

research shows the number of likely participants to be female. However, the overall customers of online 

shopping are not confirmed from the obtained data. 

2.  Age (N = 33) 

Figure 2: Distribution of age 

The above pie chart shows that about 9.1% of customers belong to the age group of 20-24, 36.4% belong 

to 24-28, 9.1% belong to the age group of 28-32, 9.1% are in the 32-36 age group, and 36.4% are in the 

36-40 age group. According to the research, customers who are between 24-28 and 36-40 years old are 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
very active in e-commerce activities, and companies can take advantage of this by targeting more cus-

17 

tomers through social media. 

3.  How often do you shop online? 

Figure 3: Representing the number of times that customers shop in e-commerce stores. 

According to the respondents, about 45.5% of customers do online shopping only when they need it; 

18.2% of them spend once a week or once a month; and the same number of respondents do not shop 

online. The obtained data shows that customers shop online only when they need the things that they 

wish to buy. There are few who shop online without having the need for the products.  

4.  On a scale of 1-5, How likely you are to trust a brand and products that are present in the 

following channels? 

Figure 4: Representing the scale that the customer trust brands present in online and physical stores. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According to the respondents collected data, customers have full trust in the brands that are presented in 

the physical shops, but customers are unlikely to trust a brand that is present on social media and e-

commerce sites. The presence of top brands on social media like Coca-Cola, Nike, Adidas, KFC, etc. is 

excluded as they have been in business and branding for generations.  

18 

5.  On a scale of 1-5, How convenient has online shopping been in your experience? 

Figure 5: Representation of Convenience of online shopping to customers 

According to the respondents, about 40% of customers feel that the online shopping process has been 

convenient to them despite the problems of scammers and the digital divide. While 20% of the respond-

ents feel that online shopping has been less convenient, the majority feel that online shopping is more 

convenient. The vote is 0 for the consumers who feel that online shopping has been the least convenient 

and disappointing experience.  

6.  On a scale of 1-5, to what extent do you agree that e-commerce sites are useful to you? 

Figure 6: Representation of e-commerce sites usefulness to customers 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 

According to the respondents, many respondents feel that the social media marketplace and e-commerce 
sites are useful. Majority of respondents have voted that e-commerce site are indeed useful and so is 
social media marketplace. 

7.  On the scale of 1-5, rate the things that matters to you in online shopping.  

Figure 7: Representation of factors that matters to customer while online shopping. 

According to the respondents, the product price is the most important factor that matters in online shop-
ping,  as  it  is  a  priority  to  most  of  the  respondents.  Similarly,  the  need  for  the  product  is  the  second 
important factor for online shopping; the customer review of the product comes after that, while the 
brand comes after that, and the picture and ads of the product are the last things that matter to the cus-
tomer while making a purchase.  

8.  On a scale of 1-5 rate how much does digital marketing affect your purchasing? 

Figure 8: Representation of the digital marketing on the customer purchasing 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According to the respondents, 45.5% of the respondents feel that digital marketing indeed affects pur-
chasing and rated 4 in the chart. 27.3% of respondents feel that digital marketing highly influences pur-
chasing decision, while only 9.1% of respondents feel that digital marketing doesn’t affect purchasing 
decision.  

20 

9.  Do you interact with customer support of a brand? 

Figure 9: Representation of the customers interaction with customer support of a brand 

According to the respondents, 63.6% of the respondents do not interact with the customer support of a 
brand on social media or e-commerce sites, while 36.4% of the respondents do so. Most of the respond-
ents do not interact with the customer support of the brand. 

10. Do you follow the social media of a brand for updates? 

 
 
 
 
 
 
21 

Figure 10: Representation of the customers who follow brand social media for updates. 

According to the respondents, 54.5% of the respondents say that they follow the social media pages of 
the brands, while 45.5% of the respondents don’t follow the brands social media handles for updates. 
Most of the respondents keep updated on brand activities and products through the social media pages.  

11. Have you ever bought products being influenced by the online advertisement? 

Figure 11: Representation of the customers who bought being influenced by online ads 

According to the respondents, 80% of the respondents have made purchases being influenced by online 
advertisements, while 20% of the respondents have not. The data shows that the online advertisements 
indeed have an effect on the customers decision making about product purchases.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. Do you feel safe doing online transaction in online shopping? 

22 

Figure 12: Representation of customers who feel safe during online transaction. 

According to the respondents, 90.9% of the participants feel that they do not feel safe while doing online 
shopping transactions. That may be the reason that the culture of cash at delivery for the purchases we 
make online in Nepalese society.  

13. Have you faced any issues in online transaction during online shopping? 

Figure 13: Representation of the customers who faced an issue during online shopping. 

According to the respondents, 40% of the participants have faced an issue during online shopping while 
60% of the participants have not faced any issues. Online transaction may lead to scams and even the 
leakage of private information on the internet.  

14. On a scale of 1-5, to what extent do you agree with the following statement?  Online ship-

ping is 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 

Figure 14: Representation of customers opinion on online shopping. 

According to the respondents, participants felt that online shopping is time-saving and convenient, while 
it is less trustworthy process and the experience is less fulfilling than physical shopping. Also, there is 
always a chance that customers might get scammed. 

15. On a scale of 1-5, to what extent do you agree with the following statement?  Traditional 

shopping is 

Figure 15: Representation of customers view on traditional shopping.  

According to the respondents, participants feel that traditional shopping is more of a trustworthy and 
fulfilling experience, while it is not convenient and time-saving.  

16. What mode of shopping do you prefer more? 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 

Figure 16: Representation of customer’s choice between online and physical shopping. 

According to the respondents, 63.6% of the participants chose online shopping over physical shopping 

while 36.4% chose physical shopping, as their preference. The data shows that the majority the people 

like to shop online due to its convenience, and time saving factor.  

4.4.2 Factors affecting the online shopping experience of customers. 

The investigation of factors impacting consumer decision-making at Nepal's Mantra Craft Store required 

a  thorough  approach  to  data  collection  and  analysis.  To  acquire  a  varied  range  of  insights  regarding 

customer behaviour in the online buying environment, a mixed-methods technique was used. Survey 

questionnaires were issued to Mantra Craft's customer base to acquire quantitative data, which included 

demographic information, shopping habits, and satisfaction levels. This quantitative method aided in the 

gathering and statistical analysis of consumer preferences, allowing the detection of patterns and trends 

in online shopping activities. 

Furthermore, qualitative methods such as in-depth interviews and focus group discussions were used to 

acquire nuanced viewpoints on cultural influences, product quality perceptions, and the overall online 

shopping experience at Mantra Craft. These qualitative insights provided a more in-depth grasp of the 

complexities behind consumer decision-making processes, providing rich narratives and contextual ex-

planations that quantitative data alone could not provide. The combination of quantitative and qualitative 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
data  enabled  a  full  investigation  of  the  various  elements  influencing  consumer  decisions  within  the 

unique environment of Mantra Craft in Nepal's online retail ecosystem. 

25 

4.4.3 Interviews with Mantra Handicraft Stakeholder 

In an interview with the owner of the Mantra Craft store, Mr. Mahendra Dhamala, he mentioned that he 

was passionate about Buddhist arts and handicrafts from a young age. Pilgrims like Swayambhunath, 

Boudhanath, and Buddha Park were the main sources of inspiration, which contained volumes of artistic 

works, architects, sculptures, and statues that had a magnificent glow and unrealistic shapes. Then he 

wanted to spread Nepalese art around the world and started his journey as a statue maker. Soon he real-

ised that there was a huge market for Nepalese-style statues and architecture and people from all over 

the world appreciated the works of Nepalese craftsmen. Since the world has been going all digital, he 

and his friends started Mantra Craft in the hope of reaching people from all around the world with his 

statues and designs. Thus, the Mantra Craft store website was officially launched, with premade designs 

available and with available and the option of customising and ordering the desired design. 

The interview with marketing executive Laxman Dhamala had a similar story to the founder as well.  

Laxman Dhamala, after his brothers-initiated e-commerce website for handicrafts, utilised his techno-

logical knowledge to support the owner, Mahendra the on the journey to create Mantra Craft store. Com-

bining his love for the designs and with his knowledge of technology and social media, the Mantra store 

was formed and has been operating till to date. As a marketing executive, he believes that his role is to 

understand the needs of the customers while also making sure that each of the product has the style of 

Nepalese craftmanship, which will help to uplift the Nepalese architecture and statue-making industry 

internationally. 

Shree Krishna Poudyal, the freight executive of the Mantra Craft store, shares that most of the clients of 

the store are from foreign countries. Mantra Crafts clients are mostly European, and the order usually 

comes from countries like the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Australia, etc. There are also 

some Nepali clients who come to our store to buy our products, but most of the products are shipped 

outside of the country with online ordering and pre-payment plans. So as a freight executive, I need to 

make sure that the ordered items are safely, timely, and satisfactorily reaching the customers so they can 

have a good shopping experience.  

 
 
 
 
 
5 FINDINGS 

26 

With my research, interviews, and study of published papers, I have some findings relating to the fac-

tors that influence consumer decision-making in online shopping. The findings are discussed below:  

5.1 Mantra Handicraft Overview 

Mantracraftstore.com is an online marketplace for Nepalese handicrafts that offers premium handicrafts 

from Nepal all over the world. It offers you a comfortable online purchasing experience. Handicrafts 

from Nepal are widely known for preserving traditional traditions, religious beliefs, and the essence of 

beauty. Mantra Handicrafts, also known as Mantra Craft Store, is a dynamic and imaginative business 

committed to promoting both traditional and modern handicrafts. Their talented artisans create one-of-

a-kind, magnificent creations that pay homage to the diverse cultural history of the places they work in. 

They specialise in a wide variety of handcrafted goods, such as metalwork, woodworking, singing bowls, 

ritual objects, and Tibetan Buddhist statues.  

They encourage sustainability by responsibly collecting their products, providing a beneficial effect on 

the natural world as well as local communities. At Mantra Handicrafts Art, it is said that they prioritise 

quality craftsmanship, awareness of detail, and the preservation of traditional techniques. The mission 

is to provide customers with one-of-a-kind, morally made art items that not only produce art pieces that 

display remarkable ability but also help preserve traditional crafts. 

5.2 Decision Factors 

The optimal services and delivery conditions offered influence a consumer’s decision-making process 

(Bauerova, 2018). The decision-making process that leads people to choose products in online stores as 

their favourite online shopping location in Nepal is influenced by a variety of variables (Liyanage & 

Wijesundara, 2020). Among these deciding factors is the appeal of real Nepalese handicrafts steeped in 

cultural history. Customers are drawn to Mantra Craft because of its artisanal products that represent 

Nepal's rich cultural heritage, making the purchase an experience that goes beyond a simple transaction. 

Handicrafts' authenticity and originality serve as appealing triggers, enticing consumers looking for dis-

tinctive and traditional objects that represent the spirit of Nepalese artistry. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 

Also, consumers' decisions to shop at online stores are strengthened by the platform's commitment to 

fair trade standards and ethical sourcing, in addition to the attractiveness of cultural authenticity (Veybi-

tha & Darta, 2023). Today's aware consumer craves transparency and ethical production processes, and 

Mantra Craft's commitment to helping local craftspeople and ensuring fair remuneration connects well 

with these principles. Generating trust is one of the most critical and essential factors for the e-shopping 

business (Thakur, 2023). This ethical dimension intertwined with the purchase process elevates the im-

portance of consumers' choices, contributing to a sense of purposeful shopping that extends beyond the 

acquisition of goods, making their patronage at Mantra Craft a conscious decision aligned with ethical 

considerations and cultural appreciation. 

5.2.1 Product Quality and Pricing 

The  products  in  the  Mantra  Craft  store  are  premium  products.  They  can  easily  range  from  a  couple 

thousand to a million rupees. Since statue artefacts are considered luxury items, they are only preferred 

by people with high incomes and high-class families for pleasure and decoration. In the present context, 

the statue with the lowest is 70 $ and the statue with the highest price is $5000.  The store has also 

extended into Nepali handicraft products such as singing bowls, handmade slippers, Tibetan furniture 

tables, Tibetan prayer wheels, Burmese gongs, etc. The customer review indicates that the quality of the 

products is premium and satisfactory. Shree Krishna Poudyal (Freight Executive) mentions that there 

has hardly been any complaint about the quality or the price of the products.  

The pricing is quite high if it was targeted to the Nepalese market and buyer, but since the whole store 

is focused on targeting international customers and markets through digital marketing, the price is nor-

mal for the foreign audience, and they also appreciate the artwork of the Nepalese craftsmen for making 

such amazing works. The products are used as decorative items for houses, restaurants, hotels, and of-

fices, and they are symbol of God for people who are devoted to the Buddhist religion. 

5.2.2 Trustworthiness and User Experience 

Trustworthiness and user experience are critical factors in shaping consumers' decisions to shop at Man-

tra Craft, particularly when it comes to online purchasing. For consumers navigating e-commerce plat-

forms,  establishing  trust  in  the  digital  environment  is  critical  (Singh,  2021).  Mantra  Craft's  focus  on 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 

secure transactions, transparent policies, and dependable customer service encourages consumer trust. 

The platform's commitment to delivering accurate product descriptions, high-quality photos, and genu-

ine user reviews helps to increase the trustworthiness of the products and the overall purchasing experi-

ence. Furthermore, the platform's emphasis on secure payment gateways and data security safeguards 

satisfies consumers' concerns about online transactions, encouraging confidence and sustaining trust. 

Furthermore, there are five factors that influence consumers legitimate return behaviour, including im-

pulsiveness, desire for uniqueness, product compatibility, perceived risk, and social group influence (Pei 

& Paswan, 2018). Also, the user experience provided by Mantra Craft has a big impact on consumer 

decisions. The straightforward interface, fluid navigation, and visually appealing design all contribute 

to a user-friendly experience that increases engagement and encourages longer interactions. The respon-

siveness of the website across several devices, combined with clear and straightforward product catego-

rization, simplifies the browsing and selection process for customers. Furthermore, features like wish 

lists, tailored suggestions, and simple checkout processes contribute to a streamlined user experience, 

ensuring consumer ease and happiness when discovering and purchasing handicrafts from Mantra Craft 

in Nepal's online marketplace. 

 
 
6 DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION 

29 

After learning the primary responses and secondary data of the study, I have reached several conclusions. 

The findings leading to such conclusions are discussed in the paragraphs below: 

The examination of the variables affecting consumers' choices when they purchase online, especially in 

relation to the Mantra Craft Store in Nepal, has revealed a complex web of variables impacting consumer 

behaviour. Consumer preferences and decisions are influenced by a combination of psychological fac-

tors, technological improvements, and cultural influences. This study demonstrated the significant in-

fluence of Nepal's rich cultural legacy on consumer choices for Mantra Craft's artisan goods. The way 

that cultural values and online shopping experiences interact highlights how important it is to match e-

commerce strategy with cultural sensitivity to effectively serve customers in this market. 

Furthermore, technological aspects became significant considerations in determining how Mantra Craft's 

online buying experience was shaped. The platform's usability, security, and safe payment channels all 

had a big impact on user confidence and participation. The research emphasises how crucial it is to keep 

up  with  technological  advancements  and  prioritise  user-centric  design  in  order  to  improve  the  entire 

online buying experience. The investigation also examined the phase of post-purchase evaluation, high-

lighting the crucial impact this phase has in determining customer satisfaction and loyalty. The post-

purchase phase is a critical area for improvement within the Mantra Craft Store, as it is crucial for build-

ing confidence and guaranteeing repeat purchases to address disparities between customer expectations 

and the given experience. 

Moreover, the study's consequences surpass Mantra Craft's boundaries, offering perspectives that are 

relevant to Nepal's wider e-commerce domain. Online retailers who want to connect with customers and 

build  long-lasting  relationships  must  prioritise  post-purchase  experiences,  optimise  technology  inter-

faces, and understand and capitalise on cultural differences. This thesis establishes the foundation for 

further research aimed at improving online purchasing experiences in Nepal's heterogeneous cultural 

environment. It also provides a guide for improving consumer happiness and decision-making in the 

ever-changing electronic commerce space. 

 
 
 
 
 
30 

REFERENCES 

Aryal, S. 2021. Factors Affecting Consumers Perception on Electronic Payment System. Nepal Journal 
Online, pp. 96-97. 

Bajracharya, S., & Chatterjee, M. J, 2023. Challenges for online purchase intention: A qualitative study 
if e-commerce sector of Nepal. LBEF Research Journal of Science, Technology and Management, 5(1), 
pp. 28-30. 

Bauerova, R. 2018. Consumerss’ decision‑making in online grocery shopping: the impact of services 
offered and delivery condition.Acta Universitatis Agriculturae et Silviculturae Mendelianne Brunensis, 
66(6),  Pp. 1243-1246.  

Chen, T., Samaranayake, P., Cen, X., Qi, M., & Lan, Y. 2022. The Impact of Online Reviews on Con-
sumers’ Purchasing Decisions: Evidence from an Eye-Tracking Study. 

Dejsiriphun, C. & Suviratvithaya, K. 2011. The Study of Consumer’s Post-Purchase Evaluation toward 
Brand Equity of Five Stars Hotels in Thailand. Thailand, School of Sustainable Development of Society 
and Technology. Master Thesis  

ECDB. 2023. eCommerce market in Nepal. Available at: https://ecommercedb.com/markets/np/all. Ac-
cessed 1 December 2023  

Gelhever, C. 2022. The value of the post-purchase stage: Assessing a digital customer journey model to 
improve the user experience of a business-to-consumer environment. 

Husnain, M. & Rehman, B. 2018. Personal and In-store Factors Influencing Impulse Buying Behavior 
among Generation Y Consumers of Small Cities. Pp 2-6.  

Isa, K., Yusoff, R.M, Rasli, & A.M., Khan, F. 2015. Impact of Trust on Online Shopping: A Systematic 
Review of Literature. 

Kothari, C.R. 2004. Research Methodology, Methods and Techniques. Second Edition. New Delhi: new 
Age International Limited. 

Lee, J.E & Lee, K.H. 2009. Purchase Motives, Use of Information Sources, and Decision-Making Styles 
of Online Clothing Shoppers. Pp. 2-5. 

Li, L.C. 2023. Technological Advancements and Consumer-Centric Transformation: The Evolution of 
Online Shopping Platforms. pp. 705-710. 

Liyanage, O. & Wijesundara, C.B. 2020. Online Impulse Buying Behavior: A Review on Conceptual and 
Practice Perspectives. 

Maharjan, S. & Khadka, K. 2017. Customer Satisfaction and Customer Loyalty. pp 16 - 20. 

Maharjan, P. Devkota, N. Mahapatra, k. S. Padda, H. UI. I. Dhakal, K. Mahato, S. Khanal, G. Parajuli, 
S. Paudel, R. U. & Bhattrai, U. 2022. FinTech Adoption among Online Grocery Buyers during COVID-
19 Lockdowns in Nepal. The Journal of Private Enterprise, Pp. 83-87. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 

Manandhar, B. R., & Chalise, M. 2023. Digital Retail Trends: Analyzing Online Shopping Behaviour 
among College Level Students in Nepal. Pp 292-294. 

Mantra  Craft.  2023.  Introduction 
craftstore.com/about/. Accessed 11 December 2023 

to  Mantra  Craft  Store. 

  Available  at  https://mantra-

NewtonX,  2023.  How  Price  Sensitivity  Influences  Customer  Buying  Behaviour.  Available  at: 
https://www.newtonx.com/article/price-sensitivity/. 

Pabalkar, V & More, R. 2019. An Analytical Study on E-Commerce and Purchase behaviour of rural 
customers in Digital era. 

Pei, Z. & Paswan, A. 2018. Consumers' Legitimate and Opportunistic Product Return Behaviours In 
Online Shopping, pp. 314-316.  

Rai, A., & Rai, K. C. 2020. Factors affecting online purchase intention of prospects: A study on Nepalese 
Context. 

Sagar, S. 2024. The Impact of Digital Transformation on Retail Management and Consumer Behaviour. 
pp. 12-14. 

Shrestha, S. 2016. Influencing Factors on Consumer Buying behaviour of Smart Phone. 

Singh, M.B. 2021. Challenges in adoption and implementation of E-Commerce platform: Case study of 
Nepal. 

Sherali, Z. 2014. Secure Mobile Payment Systems. 

Stastisa.  2023.  Digital  2023:  Nepal.  Available  at  https://datareportal.com/reports/digital-2023-nepal.  
Accessed 4 December 2023.  

Statista.  2023.  E-commerce  worldwide.  2022.  https://www.statista.com/topics/871/online-shop-
ping/#topicOverview. Accessed 4 December 2023. 

Thakur, K.R. 2023. Online Retailer’s Understanding of Consumers While Offering the Product: A Nar-
rative Study. pp. 3-6. 

UKEssays.  (November  2018).  Purchase  Decision  And  Post  Purchase  Evaluation  Marketing  Essay. 
Available at: https://www.ukessays.com/essays/marketing/purchase-decision-and-post-purchase-evalu-
ation-marketing-essay. 

Vaidya, R. 2019. Online Shopping in Nepal: Preferences and Problems, The Journal of Nepali Business. 
Pp. 72-75. 

Veybitha, Y. Alfansi, L. Salim, M. & Darta, E. 2021. Critical Review: Factors Affecting Online Pur-
chase Intention Generation Z, pp. 35-39. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wright, G. 2024. Personalized marketing in a competitive environment for brands and e-commerce re-
tailers.  Smart  Insights.  Available  at  https://www.smartinsights.com/ecommerce/web-personalisa-
tion/consumers-personalized-marketing-engagement/. Accessed on 4 Jan 2024. 

Yan,  X.  Dai,  S.  2009.  Consumer’s  Online  Shopping  Influence  Factors  and  Decision-Making  Model. 
pp.1-2. 

32 

 
 
33 

APPENDIX 1 

INTERVIEW QUESTIONNAIRE 

This  questionnaire  aims  to  gather  insights  into  the  factors  influencing  consumer  decision-making  at 

Mantra  Craft  Store,  focusing  on  aspects  of  authenticity,  user  experience,  and  trustworthiness  in  the 

online shopping landscape. The data collected are solely for academic purposes and your personal details 

are kept to a minimum and will not be shared for any other purposes than this study. 

For Owner/Management: 

1.  Briefly describe the core values and vision of Mantra Craft for representing Nepalese handicrafts 

online. 

2.  What strategies or practices has Mantra Craft employed to ensure the authenticity and preserva-

tion of traditional Nepalese craftsmanship in its offerings? 

3.  How does Mantra Craft prioritise and enhance the user experience on its online platform to en-

gage and satisfy customers? 

4.  What  measures  or  protocols  does  Mantra  Craft  implement  to  establish  trust  and  reliability  in 

online transactions for customers? 

5.  From your perspective, what are the primary factors influencing consumer decisions to shop at 

Mantra Craft, and how have these evolved over time? 

For Staff: 

1.  How do you perceive the significance of authenticity and cultural heritage in the products offered 

by Mantra Craft in influencing customer preferences? 

2.  What steps or initiatives have you observed being taken by Mantra Craft to maintain trust and 

credibility in its online transactions? 

3.  In your opinion, how does Mantra Craft ensure a seamless and user-friendly online shopping 

experience for customers? 

4.  From your interactions with customers, what factors seem to significantly impact their decision-

making when shopping at Mantra Craft? 

5.  What challenges or obstacles, if any, have you encountered in meeting the evolving demands 

and expectations of consumers in the online retail space? 

 
 
 
 
 
34 

APPENDIX 2/1 

INTERVIEW QUESTIONNAIRE 

This  questionnaire  aims  to  gather  insights  into  the  factors  influencing  consumer  decision-making  at 

Mantra  Craft  Store,  focusing  on  aspects  of  authenticity,  user  experience,  and  trustworthiness  in  the 

online shopping landscape. The data collected are solely for academic purposes and your personal details 

are kept to a minimum and will not be shared any other purposes than for this study. 

For Customers: 

1.  What  influenced  your  decision  to  choose  Mantra  Craft  for  purchasing  Nepalese  handicrafts 

online? 

2.  How would you rate the trustworthiness and authenticity of the products and services offered by 

Mantra Craft based on your experiences? 

3.  Describe your user experience while navigating and making purchases on the Mantra Craft web-

site or platform. 

4.  What specific elements or factors play a significant role in your decision-making process when 

purchasing from Mantra Craft? (e.g., product descriptions, reviews, payment security, etc.) 

5.  Have you faced any challenges or encountered issues during your interactions or purchases at 

Mantra  Craft?  If  so,  how  were  these  addressed  by  the  platform's  support  or  customer  service 

team? 

 
 
 
 
 
 
35 

APPENDIX 2/2 

SURVEY QUESTIONNAIRE 

AN  ANALYSIS  OF  THE  FACTORS  THAT  INFLUNCE  CONSUMER  DECISION-MAKING  IN 
ONLINE SHOPPING  

This  questionnaire  aims  to  gather  insights  into  the  factors  influencing  consumer  decision-making  at 
Mantra  Craft  Store,  focusing  on  aspects  of  authenticity,  user  experience,  and  trustworthiness  in  the 
online shopping landscape. The data collected are solely for academic purposes and your personal details 
are kept to a minimum and will not be shared any other purposes than for this study. 

Name 

Age 

o  16-20 
o  20-24 
o  24-28 
o  28-32 
o  32-36 
o  36-40 
o  40 above 

Gender 

o  Male 
o  Female 
o  Other:  

Occupation:  

Online Shopping Overview:  

How often do you shop online? 

o  Once a week 
o  Once every month 
o  Depends upon the need. 
o  I don't shop online. 

On a scale of 1 to 5, how often do you visit online shops? 

o  0 (Not at all) 
o  1 
o  2 
o  3 

 
 
 
 
 
o  4 
o  5 (Very frequent) 

On a scale of 1-5, How likely you are to trust a brand and products that is present in following channels? 

1 (Unlikely)      2 

3 

4 

5 (Likely) 

36 

Social Media  

Website 

Physical Shop 

Social Media  

Website 

Physical Shop 

On a scale of 1-5, How convenient has online shopping been your experience? 

o  0 (Inconvenient) 
o  1 
o  2 
o  3 
o  4 
o  5 (Super Convenient) 

On a scale of 1-5, to what extent do you agree that e-commerce sites are useful to you? 

0 (not useful at all) 

1      2      3      4     

5 (Super Useful) 

Social Media Marketplace  

E-commerce sites 

Social Media Marketplace  

E-commerce sites 

On a scale of 1-5, to what extent do you agree that online shopping in following platforms can be risky 
in your experience. 

1 (Very Risky) 

2 

3 

4 

5 (Safe) 

Social Media  

Websites 

Social Media  

Websites 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the scale of 1-5, rate the things that matters to you in online shopping.  

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

37 

Product Price  

Product Picture and Ads 

Brand 

Customer Review 

Self-need for the product 

On a scale of 1-5 rate how much does digital marketing affect your purchasing? 

o  1 (doesn't affect) 
o  2 
o  3 
o  4 
o  5 (affects strongly) 

Do you interact with customer support of a brand? 

o  Yes 
o  No 

Do you follow the social media of a brand for updates? 

o  Yes 
o  No 

Have you ever bought products being influenced by the online advertisement? 

o  Yes 
o  No 

Do you feel safe doing online transaction in online shopping? 

o  Yes 
o  No 

Have you faced any issues in online transaction during online shopping?  

o  yes 
o  No 

On a scale of 1-5, how good online shopping experience has been to you? 

o  1 (Bad) 
o  2 
o  3 
o  4 
o  5 (Very good) 

 
 
 
 
 
On a scale of 1-5, to what extent do you agree with the following statement?   

38 

1 (disagree)  2 

3 

4 

5 (totally agreed) 

Online shipping is. 

Trustworthy   

Convenient 

Timesaving   

Scam 

fulfilling experience 

On a scale of 1-5, to what extent do you agree with the following statement?   

1 (disagree)  2 

3 

4 

5 (totally agreed) 

Traditional shopping is 

Trustworthy   

Convenient 

Timesaving   

Fulfilling experience 

What mode of shopping do you prefer more? 

o  Online Shopping 
o  Physical Shopping 

Any more comments or suggestions? 

Thank you for your participation!!! 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
