FACTORS IMPACTING ONLINE SHOPPER’S ACTION IN 

KATHMANDU VALLEY 

A Dissertation Submitted to the Office of the Dean, Faculty of Management in partial 

fulfillment of the requirements for the Master of Business Studies (MBS)  

By 

Sabina Bhandari 

Campus Roll No: 925/74 

Exam Roll No.: 23903/20 

TU Reg No.: 7-2-911-27-2012 

Shanker Dev Campus 

Kathmandu, Nepal 

June, 2024 

CERTIFICATION OF AUTHORSHIP 

I  hereby corroborate  that  I  have  researched  and  submitted  the  final  draft  of  dissertation 

entitled “Factors Impacting Online Shopper’s Action in Kathmandu Valley”. The work 

of this dissertation has not been submitted previously for the purpose of conferral of any 

degrees  nor.  It  has  been  proposed  and  presented  as  part  of  requirements  for  any  other 

academic purposes.  

The  assistance  and cooperation  that  I  have  received  during  this  research  work  has  been 

acknowledged. In addition, I declare that all  information sources and  literature used are 

cited in the reference section of the dissertation.  

………………………… 

Sabina Bhandari 

Date: March, 2024 

ii 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REPORT OF RESEARCH COMMITTEE 

Ms Sabina Bhandari has defended research proposal entitled “Factors Impacting Online 

Shopper’s  Action  in  Kathmandu  Valley”,  successfully.  The  research  committee  has 

registered the dissertation for further progress. It is recommended to carry out the work as 

per  suggestions  and  guidance  of  supervisor  Mikha  Shrestha  and  submit  the  thesis  for 

evaluation and viva voce examination.  

Mikha Shrestha 

Dissertation Proposal Defended Date 

Dissertation Supervisor:………….  

Signature: ……………………. 

Asso. Prof. Dr. Sajeeb Kumar Shrestha  

Head, Research Department 

Signature: ……………………. 

……………………………………………
…………….. 
Dissertation Submitted Date 

……………………………………………
…………….. 
Dissertation Viva Voce Date 

……………………………………………
…………….. 

iii 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVAL SHEET 

We,  the  undersigned,  have  examined  the  thesis  entitled  “Factors  Impacting  Online 

Shopper’s Action in Kathmandu Valley” presented by Sabina Bhandari, a candidate for 

the  degree  of  Master  of  Business  Studies  (MBS  Semester)  and  conducted  Viva  voce 

examination of the candidate. We hereby certify that the thesis is worthy of acceptance. 

………………….. 

Mikha Shrestha 

Dissertation Supervisor  

………………………. 

Internal Examiner  

………………………... 

External Examiner  

……………………….. 

Asso. Prof. Dr. Sajeeb Kumar Shrestha  

Chairman, Research Committee  

………………………… 

Asso. Prof. Dr. Krishna Prasad Acharya  

Campus Chief  

iv 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

I would like to forward my deepest gratitude to Mikha Shrestha of Shanker Dev Campus 

who  supports  me  with  her  invaluable  scholarly  supervision,  constructive  comments  and 

suggestions that allow me to furnish this thesis report in this final format. 

I would like to pay my sincere thanks to Asso. Prof. Dr. Sajeeb Kumar Shrestha, Head of 

Research  Department  and  Asso.  Prof.  Dr.  Krishna  Prasad  Acharya,  Campus  Chief  of 

Shanker Dev Campus. Besides, I would also  like to thank to other respected teachers of 

Shanker  Dev  Campus  and  all  of  the  staff  of this  campus  for  their  help  in  providing  me 

various kinds of suggestion, information and comments. 

Further, my deep regard to known and unknown individual who helped to collect the data 

at preliminary stage of this dissertation writing. 

It is the matter of my immense pleasure to express my deep sense of gratitude and heartfelt 

respect to my parents for their affection, inspiration and incredible support to precede my 

academic career.  

Sabina Bhandari 

v 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Title Page                                                                                                                               i 

Certification of Authorship                                                                                                   ii 

Report of Research Committee                                                                                            iii 

Approval Sheet                                                                                                                     iv 

Acknowledgements                                                                                                                v 

Table of Contents                                                                                                           .      vi 

List of Tables                                                                                                                     .viii 

List of Figures  

         ix 

Abbreviations                                                                                                                        x 

Abstract                                                                                                                               xi 

CHAPTER I  INTRODUCTION                                                                                

1.1 Background of the Study                                                                                           1 

1.2 Problem Statement                                                                                                     4 

1.3 Objectives of the Study                                                                                              5 

1.4 Research Hypothesis                                                                                                  5 

1.5 Rationale of the Study                                                                                                5 

1.6. Limitations of the Study                                                                                            6 

CHAPTER II  LITERATURE REVIEW                                                                  

2.1 Theoretical Review                                                                                                    7 

       2.1.1 Concept of Internet Banking 

       2.1.2 Internet Banking and Consumer Adoption  

       2.1.3 Concept of Service Quality  

                     7 

                     8 

                     9 

       2.1.4 Traditional Service Quality Dimension 

                                 9 

       2.1.5 Concept of Shopper’s Action  

     2.1.6 Advantages of Online Shopping 

       10 

                 10 

       2.1.7 Demographic Factors Influencing Shoppers Action                                          11 

       2.1.8 Non-Store Factors for Online Shoppers Action                                                12 

       2.1.9 Online Shoppers in Digital Age                                                                        14 

       2.1.10 Models of Consumer Behavior                                                                       15 

       2.1.11 Online Reviews and Recommendation of Online Shopping                          16 

vi 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                
                  
 
               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       2.1.12 E-commerce Infrastructure and Logistics of Online Shopping                      17 

2.2 Empirical Review                                                                                                     17 

       2.2.1 Review of Journal and Articles 

       2.2.2 Review of Thesis 

                                17 

                                26 

2.3 Research Gap                                                                                                            29 

CHAPTER III  RESEARCH METHODOLOGY                                                 

3.1 Research Design                                                                                                       30 

3.2 Population and Sample                                                                                             31 

3.3 Nature and Sources of Data                                                                                      31 

3.4 Instrumentation of Data Collection                                                                          32 

3.5 Methods of Analysis                                                                                                 32 

3.6 Statistical Tools                                                                                                        32 

       3.6.1 Correlation Analysis 

        33 

       3.6.2 Descriptive Statistics                                                                                          33 

3.7 Research Framework and Definition of Variables                                                   35 

CHAPTER IV RESULTS AND DISCUSSION                                                      

4.1 Results                                                                                                                       37 

       4.1.1 Demographic Analysis of the Respondents 

       4.1.2 Descriptive Statistics 

                    37 

        39 

   4.1.3 Major Finding of the Study                                                                                 47 

4.2 Discussion                                                                                                                 49 

CHAPTER-V SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION                                                 

5.1. Summary                                                                                                                  51 

5.2. Conclusion                                                                                                               52 

5.3. Implications                                                                                                             54 

REFERENCES 

APPENDICES 

vii 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
 
 
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LIST OF TABLES 

Table No. 

Title 

        Page No. 

Table 1 Empirical Review of International Article 

                    22 

Table 2 Age of the Respondents                                                                                         37 

Table 3 Gender of the Respondents                                                                                   38  

Table 4 Education of the Respondents                                                                              38 

Table 5 Monthly Income of the Respondents                                                                    39 

Table 6 Occupation of the Respondents                                                                            39 

Table 7 Descriptive Analysis of Convenience                                                                   40 

Table 8 Descriptive Analysis of Information                                                                     41 

Table 9 Descriptive Analysis of Availability                                                                     41 

Table 10 Descriptive Analysis of Time and Cost                                                              42              

Table 11 Descriptive Statistics of Online Shoppers Action                                               43 

Table 12 Descriptive Analysis of Study of Variables                                                        43 

Table 13 Correlation Matrix                                                                                               44 

Table 14 Model Summary of Regression Analysis                                                            46 

Table 15 ANOVA Table of Dependent and Independent Variable                                   46 

Table 16 Coefficient Table of Dependent and Independent Variable                                47 

viii 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LIST OF FIGURES 

Figure No.                                                   Title 

       Page No. 

Figure 1 Research Framework 

      35 

ix 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABBREVIATIONS 

ANOVA 

: Analysis of Variance 

Avai 

: Availability 

C&T    

: Cost and Time Efficiency 

Conv    

: Convenience 

COVID 

: Corona Virus 

E- Commerce  : Electronic Commerce 

EFA  

IBM  

Inf  

:  Exploratory Factor Analysis 

: International Business Machine 

: Information 

KMO   

: Kaiser–Meyer–Olkin 

OSA 

SLC 

SPSS 

US 

: Online Shoppers Action 

: School Leaving Certificate 

: Statistical Package for Social Sciences 

: United State 

x 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT 

The  surge  in  information  and  technology  has  led  to  a  rising  trend  of  online  shopping, 

particularly in urban areas of Nepal, notably in the Kathmandu valley. This shift has proven 

especially  valuable  during  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  providing  a  convenient  means  of 

acquiring products and services delivered directly to our homes. Online shopping offers a 

vast array of options, including items that may not be readily available in physical stores. 

This method reduces the risk of disease transmission, as there is no need to visit stores and 

physically select items.  

A study was conducted with 400 participants, all of whom had engaged in online shopping. 

Both multiple-choice and open-ended questions addressing the factors influencing online 

shopper behavior were administered through online platforms, utilizing Google Forms. The 

collected  data  underwent  analysis  using  IBM  SPSS  Software,  involving  Descriptive 

Statistical  Analysis  and  Correlation  Analysis  to  draw  insights  from  the  information 

gathered. 

In  the  context  of  the  Kathmandu  Valley,  various  factors  such  as  time  efficiency,  cost 

considerations, access to information, and the availability of goods and services contribute 

to the preference for online shopping. Convenience plays a significant role in the overall 

customer  experience  and  should  be  a  central  focus  in  the  strategies  and  plans  of  retail 

brands.  The  convenience  factor  is  instrumental  in  business  growth,  making  it  a  crucial 

aspect  of  marketing.  Having  reliable  information  is  an  essential  asset  for  any  business, 

serving as a critical tool for success. 

Information  allows  you  to  monitor  profitability,  manage  inventory  and  products,  and 

respond to customer demands. Correct information in online business help to facilitate the 

business expansion. Availability of goods and services helps to fulfil the needs and wants 

of the consumers. Cost and time-saving are the main factor which consumers choose to 

shop online. The popularity of online shopping among Nepalese people has increased with 

the different factors such as convenience, time-saving and cost, availability of goods and 

services, information.  

Keywords:  Convenience,  Information,  Availability,  Cost  and  Time  Efficiency,  Online 

Shoppers Action 

xi 

 
1 

CHAPTER I 

INTRODUCTION 

1.1 Background of the Study 

Online  Shoppers’s  actions  are  the  process  of  purchasing  goods  or  services  over  the 

internet  It  has  become an  increasingly  popular  way  for  consumers  to  shop  in  recent 

years, with the rise of e-commerce platforms and the increasing availability of high-

speed  internet  Online  shopping  offers  a  number  of  benefits  to consumers,  including 

convenience,  a  wider  selection  of  products,  and  the  ability  to  compare  prices  and 

reviews across different websites (Koirala, 2021:14).  

The growth of online shopper’s action has been driven by a number of factors, including 

advancements in technology, changes in consumer behavior and preferences, and the 

increasing availability of online retailers. According to a report by eMarketer, global 

ecommerce sales are projected to reach $5 trillion by 2022, driven by continued growth 

in emerging markets and increasing mobile commerce.  

However, online shopping also presents a number of challenges for retailers, including 

the  need  to  develop  effective  online  marketing  strategies,  provide  secure  payment 

options, and create a seamless online shopping experience. As a result, businesses are 

constantly seeking ways to improve their online sales and customer engagement, such 

as through the use of social media, targeted advertising, and personalized promotions.  

Online shoppers action is influenced by a variety of factors, including personal, social, 

psychological,  and  situational  factors.  Understanding  these  factors  is  crucial  for 

businesses looking to  improve their online sales and customer engagement. The key 

factors  that  influence  online  shoppers  action  include  convenience,  perceived  risk, 

website design, social  influence, trust, and personal factors such as age, income, and 

education level. 

Convenience  is  often  cited  as  one  of  the  most  important  factors  influencing  online 

shoppers action, as it allows consumers to shop from the comfort of their own homes, 

at any time of the day or night. Perceived risk, on the other hand, refers to the level of 

uncertainty  or  potential  negative  consequences  associated  with  an  online  purchase, 

which can affect a consumer's decision to buy. Website design and usability are also 

 
2 

important factors, as they can impact a consumer's perception of a retailer's credibility 

and ease of use. Social influence, such as the opinions and recommendations of friends 

or family, can also play a significant role in online shopper’s action. Trust is another 

important factor, as consumers need to feel confident that their personal and financial 

information  is  secure  when  making  online  purchases.  Personal  factors  such  as  age, 

income, and education level can also impact online shoppers action, as these factors can 

influence a consumer's level of comfort with technology, their financial resources, and 

their shopping habits (Hussain et al. 2021:21).  

The online shoppers action of consumers in Kathmandu Valley or Nepal is still in the 

early  stages  of  development,  but  it  is  growing  rapidly  as  internet  penetration  and 

smartphone adoption increase in the region. According to a 2020 report by the Nepal 

Telecommunications Authority, internet penetration in Nepal reached 63.71%, with the 

majority of users accessing the internet via mobile devices.  

A study by Baabdullah et al. (2020) found that convenience, perceived risk, website 

design, social influence, and trust were among the most important factors influencing 

online shoppers action in Nepal. The study also found that purchase intention mediated 

the  relationship  between  these  factors  and  actual  online  shoppers  action.  The  most 

popular  products  purchased  online  in  Nepal  were  electronics,  clothing,  and  beauty 

products. The study also found that consumers were most likely to shop on e-commerce 

platforms that offered cash on delivery as a payment method, as well as platforms that 

were well-known and trusted (Thapa & Sharma, 2020:58).  

However, despite the growth in online shoppers action in Nepal, there are still several 

barriers to adoption, including limited internet access in rural areas, limited availability 

of digital payment options, and concerns around trust and security. A 2021 report  by 

the  Himalayan  Times  highlighted  these  challenges,  noting  that  online  shopping  in 

Nepal is still largely limited to urban areas, and that many consumers still prefer to shop 

in physical stores where they can see and touch products before purchasing.  

Overall, the online shoppers action of consumers in Kathmandu Valley or Nepal is still 

in the early stages of development, but it is a rapidly growing market with significant 

potential for expansion in the coming years. 

 
 
3 

The focus of the study is to identify and assess the factors that influence online shoppers 

action  among  consumers  in  the  Kathmandu  Valley.  It  analyzes  the  relationship  and 

impact of convenience, information, available products and services, and cost and time 

efficiency on consumer behavior for online shopping. By providing  insights  into the 

factors that impact online shoppers action, this study can help e-commerce businesses 

develop effective strategies to meet the needs and expectations of their customers in the 

Kathmandu Valley. 

1.1.1 A Brief Introduction of Online Shopping Portals 

Online shopping portals in Nepal have gained immense popularity in recent years due 

to the growing trend of e-commerce. Some of the leading online shopping portals  in 

Nepal include Daraz, Sastodeal, Kaymu, NepBay, and Muncha, among others. These 

portals offer a wide range of products, including clothing, electronics, home appliances, 

groceries,  and  more.  They  provide  customers  with  a  convenient  and  hassle-free 

shopping experience, allowing them to browse and purchase products from the comfort 

of their homes. With the rise of online shopping in Nepal, these portals have become 

an essential part of the country's retail landscape, providing customers with easy access 

to a diverse range of products and services. 

  Daraz: Daraz is one of the most popular online shopping portals in Nepal. It offers 

a wide range of products, including electronics, fashion, home appliances, beauty 

products, and more. Daraz provides a convenient and secure platform for customers 

to shop online, with easy payment options and a reliable delivery system. 

  Sastodeal: Sastodeal is another popular online shopping portal in Nepal. It offers a 

diverse range of products, including clothing, electronics, books, toys, and more. 

Sastodeal  provides  customers  with  a  hassle-free  shopping  experience,  with  easy 

payment options and a user-friendly interface. 

  Kaymu: Kaymu is an online marketplace that connects buyers and sellers in Nepal. 

It offers a wide range of products, including clothing, electronics, home appliances, 

and more. Kaymu provides customers  with access to a diverse range of products 

and sellers, with easy payment options and a secure delivery system. 

  NepBay: NepBay is an online shopping portal that offers a wide range of products, 

including clothing, electronics, books, and more. NepBay provides customers with 

 
 
4 

a convenient and secure platform to shop online, with easy payment options and a 

reliable delivery system. 

  Muncha: Muncha is an online shopping portal that offers a wide range of products, 

including clothing, electronics, books, and more. Muncha provides customers with 

a convenient and secure platform to shop online, with easy payment options and a 

reliable delivery system. It also offers a unique service called "Send Gifts to Nepal," 

allowing customers to send gifts to their loved ones in Nepal. 

1.2 Problem Statement  

The increment in internet users, the perception and attitude of the people have changed 

from going to the store and likely have been shifted for viewing products online with 3 

required information.  This  means store outlet attraction doesn’t attract people online 

but necessary information does.  People visit the physical market less and browse the 

product online. If a local/small business doesn’t make their online presence, they will 

slowly lose their customers to the competitors by providing online services. Many e-

commerce  websites  in  Nepal  allow  the  listing  of  products  and  services  for  FREE. 

Consumers can directly contact these businesses via contact details submitted by the 

businesses Internet (Schiffman and Kanuk, 2010:20). 

Advancements  in  online-based  technology  have  resulted  in  shifts  in  the  retailing 

industry, affecting both customers and business practice. The development of Internet 

technology  has  enabled  customers  to  access  online  customer  reviews  and  organize 

information to enhance their shopping experience. Furthermore, the need and desires 

of  consumers  undergo  change  from  time  to  time.  In  order  to  adapt  business  with 

changing pace of consumer needs and desires, it is essential for marketers to conduct 

research  continuously  on  consumers.  Hence  it  is  necessary  to  study  the  factors 

impacting online shoppers action in Kathmandu Valley (Zeithaml and Bitner, 2003:21). 

Factors  affecting  customer  satisfaction  are  key  concern  for  any  organization, 

department or country because through customer satisfaction any business can establish 

long term profitable relationship with customer. The reason behind is once a firm loses 

its loyal customers it has to incur a cost of acquiring them again in addition to acquiring 

the new ones. To satisfy the aim, objective and the purpose for the review, the following 

questions has been outlined depending the issues below: 

 
 
 
5 

  What are the factors influencing the online shoppers action of Kathmandu Valley? 

 

Is there any relationship between convenience, information, available products & 

services and cost and time efficiency and online shopper’s action?  

  What is the impact of the convenience, information, available products & services 

and cost & time efficiency on online shopper’s action? 

1.3 Objectives of the Study 

This study is aimed at fulfilling the following objectives: 

  To assess the factors influencing the online shoppers action of Kathmandu valley. 

  To analyze the relationship between convenience, information, available products 

& services and cost & time efficiency and online shopper’s action.  

  To  examine  the  impact  of  convenience,  information,  available  products  & 

services and cost & time efficiency on online shopper’s action. 

1.4 Research Hypothesis 

Based on the empirical study, the following hypothesis were formulated to conduct this 

study: 

H1: There is significant relationship between convenience and online shopper’s action.  

H2: There is significant relationship between information and online shopper’s action. 

H3: There is significant relationship between available products & services and online 

shopper’s action. 

H4:  There  is  significant  relationship  between  cost  &  time  efficiency  and  online 

shopper’s action. 

1.5 Rationale of the Study 

The findings of this study will not only benefit the online marketers in formulating their 

marketing strategies but will also increase the knowledge and research in the field of 

online shopping. The study will identify internal and external factors which influences 

online shoppers action and it is important to know how much effect these factors have 

on  online  shopper’s  action.  Besides  the  factors  influencing,  the  study  also  helps  to 

analyze who are the online shoppers in terms of demography.  

 
 
6 

The rationale of this study is that the findings of this research work can be useful for 

the  marketer to  formulate  marketing  strategy.  It  can  benefit  both the  consumers  for 

making buying decision easily and the marketer for redesign, modifying their products 

as per need of consumers.  

Specifically, the research work may be useful for the following sector: -  

  Marketers are concerned with the development of effective marketing program 

and strategy. So as to persuade the prospective buyer to choose particular products 

or brands, this kind of study can be very useful for marketers.  

  Academic  researchers  are  basically  concerned  with  understanding  how 

consumers make buying decisions. This kind of study in Nepal is likely to prove 

the foundation for basic research on consumers' buying behavior in Nepal. 

  Public policy makers are concerned with protection of consumer's interest in the 

market  place.  In  Nepal,  this  objective  becomes  even  more  important  than  in 

development countries due to low level of consumer knowledge and absence  of 

independent agencies that provide objective information. 

1.6. Limitations of the Study 

The study has certain limitations, which are as follows:  

  This  study  is  focused  on  the  factors  impacting  online  shoppers  action  of 

consumers inside Kathmandu Valley only.  

  The  sample  size  is  limited  to  a  specific  group  or  area  and  may  not  be 

representative of the whole country. 

  The study relies on self-reported data which is subject to response bias or may 

not represent the actual behavior of the participant. 

  The  study  faces  time  and  budget  constraints,  which  limit  the  scope  of  the 

research  and  the  ability  to  explore  all  relevant  factors  that  impact  online 

shoppers action among consumers in Kathmandu Valley. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 

CHAPTER II 

LITERATURE REVIEW 

A literature review is the overview of reviewing the critical points of current knowledge 

including substantive findings as well as theoretical and methodological contributions 

to a particular topic. It is also a critical and in depth evaluation of previous research 

performed  by  prior  researchers.  This  knowledge  motivates  further  research  on  some 

topics  which  weren't  researched  by  others.  The  various  articles,  books,  research 

journals, unpublished theses and internet have been used for this research work.  

2.1 Theoretical Review 

2.1.1 Concept of Internet Banking 

Internet banking, also known as online banking or e-banking, is a service provided by 

financial institutions that allows customers to access and manage their bank accounts 

via the internet It provides a wide range of services including account balance check, 

fund  transfer,  bill  payment,  and  investment  management,  among  others.  Internet 

banking has  gained popularity due to its convenience, accessibility, and time-saving 

features. 

According to a report by the Federal Reserve, as of 2021, over 90% of U.S. households 

have access to the internet, and over 80% of those households have used online banking 

services  at  least  once  in  the  past  year.  This  highlights  the  widespread  adoption  of 

internet banking in the United States. 

Internet  banking  offers  various  benefits  for  both  banks and  customers.  For  banks,  it 

allows for cost savings in terms of physical infrastructure and staff, while also providing 

a wider reach to customers. For customers, it offers convenience and 24/7 availability, 

allowing for transactions to be done from anywhere and at any time. A study conducted 

by McKinsey & Company found that internet banking can reduce transaction costs by 

up to 90% and increase customer satisfaction levels by up to  30% (Shah &  Tanodn, 

2020:58). 

However,  internet  banking  also  poses  security  risks  such  as  identity  theft,  phishing 

attacks,  and  malware.  To  mitigate  these  risks,  financial  institutions  employ  various 

security measures including multi-factor authentication, encryption, and firewalls. 

 
 
8 

In  conclusion,  internet  banking  has  become  a  popular  service  offered  by  financial 

institutions, providing convenience, accessibility, and cost savings to both banks and 

customers. While it comes with inherent security risks, appropriate security measures 

can  be  implemented  to  ensure  safe  and  secure  banking  experiences  for  customers 

(Parasuraman, 1985:56). 

2.1.2 Internet Banking and Consumer Adoption 

Internet  banking  has  transformed  the  traditional  banking  experience  by  providing  a 

convenient  and  secure  online  platform  for  customers  to  access  their  bank  accounts, 

make transactions, and manage their finances. Consumer adoption of internet banking 

has been increasing steadily over the years due to its many benefits such as ease of use, 

flexibility, and accessibility. 

According to a study conducted by the Pew Research Center, the number of adults in 

the United States who use mobile banking services has increased from 18% in 2011 to 

46%  in  2019.  This  highlights  the  growing  adoption  of  internet  banking  among 

consumers in the US. 

Several factors have contributed to the increasing adoption of internet banking. One of 

the primary factors is convenience. Customers can access their accounts and perform 

transactions  from  anywhere,  anytime  using  their  mobile  devices  or  computers.  This 

eliminates  the  need  to  visit  a  physical  bank  branch,  saving  time  and  effort  for  the 

customers. 

Another factor is the increasing use of smartphones and mobile devices. With the rise 

of mobile technology, customers have become accustomed to accessing services and 

products on the go, including banking services. A report by eMarketer estimates that 

over 60% of US adults will use mobile banking services by 2023. 

Security  is  also  an  important  factor  that  influences  consumer  adoption  of  internet 

banking. Customers expect their personal and financial information to be kept secure, 

and  banks  have  implemented  various  measures  to  ensure  the  safety  of  online 

transactions.  These  include  two-factor  authentication,  encryption,  and  anti-fraud 

monitoring systems. In conclusion, internet banking has become an essential service in 

the  banking  industry,  and  consumer  adoption  continues  to  increase  due  to  its 

 
 
9 

convenience,  accessibility,  and  security.  As  technology  continues  to  evolve,  it  is 

expected that internet banking will become even more integrated into consumers' daily 

lives (Zeithaml and Bitner, 2003:21). 

2.1.3 Concept of Service Quality 

Service  quality  refers  to  the  degree  to  which  a  service  meets  or  exceeds  customer 

expectations. It is a crucial aspect of business success, as customers are likely to return 

and recommend a business that provides high-quality service. Here are some notable 

citations about the concept of service quality. Service quality is the degree of excellence 

or  superiority  that  customers  perceive  in  the  delivered  service.  This  definition 

emphasizes  the  importance  of  customer  perception  in  evaluating  service  quality. 

Service quality is the gap between customer expectations and perceptions of service. 

This definition highlights the idea that service quality is not an absolute concept, but 

rather  depends  on  how  well  a  service  meets  customer  expectations  (Parasuraman, 

1985:56). 

2.1.4 Traditional Service Quality Dimension 

Traditional service quality dimensions are a set of dimensions that are commonly used 

to  evaluate  the  quality  of  services.  These  dimensions  were  first  introduced  by 

Parasuraman, Zeithaml, and Berry in their landmark 1985 study titled "A Conceptual 

Model  of  Service  Quality  and  Its  Implications  for  Future  Research"  and  have  been 

widely used in research and practice since then. 

The five traditional service quality dimensions are: 

  Tangibles:  This  dimension  refers  to  the  physical  appearance  of  the  service, 

including the facilities, equipment, and personnel. 

  Reliability: This dimension refers to the ability of the service provider to perform 

the promised service dependably and accurately. 

  Responsiveness: This dimension refers to the willingness of the service provider 

to help customers and provide prompt service. 

  Assurance: This dimension refers to the knowledge, competence, and courtesy of 

the service provider and their ability to inspire trust and confidence in customers. 

  Empathy:  This  dimension  refers  to  the  caring,  individualized  attention  that  the 

service provider gives to customers (Parasuraman, 1985:23). 

 
 
10 

2.1.5 Concept of Shopper’s Action  

Shopper’s  action  is  the  study  of  the  actions  and  decision-making  processes  of 

individuals or groups when purchasing goods or services. It encompasses a wide range 

of factors, including psychological, social, and cultural influences, as well as economic 

and situational factors. Shoppers action is crucial for businesses to understand as it can 

help them develop effective marketing  strategies,  identify new  market opportunities, 

and build strong relationships with their customers.  Shoppers action is influenced by 

four key factors: cultural, social, personal, and psychological. Cultural factors include 

values, beliefs, and customs that shape consumers' behavior. Social factors refer to the 

influence of family, friends, and other reference groups on consumer behavior. Personal 

factors include age, gender, income, and lifestyle, while psychological factors include 

motivation, perception, and learning (Solomon, 2021:24). 

2.1.6 Advantages of Online Shopping 

Online shopping leads to various kinds of shops in the online platform. An online shop 

is a place for a transaction to sell products or services via the internet Online shop does 

not  have  to  be  on  a  website.  We  can  also  open  online  stores  on  social  media,  i.e. 

Facebook, Instagram and etc. The existence of the internet has created a change in the 

commerce world becoming more modern. The Customer does not have to meet face-

to-face to be able to conduct a transaction. They only need to make a deal between the 

two parties and the products will arrive at the location without having to bother to visit 

the store, or in other words, you may be selling or buying products and services over 

the Internet (Schiffman and Kanuk, 2010:20). 

Besides, customers may enjoy shopping online 24 hours a day. It is due to e-commerce 

is  open  365  days  and  never  closed  for  even  one  minute.  Ecommerce  also  expands 

geographical reach because customers can purchase any goods and services anytime, 

anywhere. Therefore, online shopping is  more environmentally friendly compared to 

buying in-store or offline shops because customers can fulfill their needs by choosing 

without having to go to the store/shop (Parasuraman, 1985:26).  

 
 
 
 
2.2.7 Demographic Factors Influencing Shoppers Action 

These  factors  also  influence  buyer  behavior.  The  important  personal  factors,  which 

influence online shoppers action are as follows: 

11 

a) Age 

b) Occupation  

c) Income 

 d) Gender 

 e) Education 

a)  Age 

Age of a person is one of the important factors influencing online buyer behavior. The 

age of the consumer determines the type of product demanded and the choice of stores. 

People buy different products at their different stages of cycle. Their taste, preference, 

etc.  also  change  with  change  in  life  cycle.  Normally,  a  young  person  is  fashion 

conscious in the choice of products, while a  middle-aged person  is  status conscious. 

Young  consumers  are  more  prone  to  visit  departmental  stores,  while  middle-aged 

persons prefer discount stores. Young consumers show  more risk taking behavior  in 

buying new products than older consumers. 

b)  Occupation 

Occupation  of  the  individual  often  determines  his/her  consumer  behavior  pattern. 

Occupation is a key determinant of a consumer’s income and social class.  Consumers 

involved in different occupations show different product needs (occupational) and buy 

products in different outlets. Occupation or profession of a person influences his buying 

behavior.  The  life  styles  and  buying  considerations  and  decisions  differ  widely 

according to the nature of the occupation. For instance, the buying of a doctor can be 

easily differentiated from that of a lawyer, teacher, clerk businessman, landlord, etc. 

So,  the  marketing  managers  have  to  design  different  marketing  strategies  suit  the 

buying motives of different occupational groups. 

c)  Income 

Income  level  of  people  is  another  factor  which  can  exert  influence  in  shaping  the 

consumption  pattern.  Income  is  an  important  source  of  purchasing  power.  Personal 

 
 
12 

income is a major determinant of consumer behavior. The amount of disposable income 

of an individual determines what brands are bought, how frequently and in what type 

of store.  Discretionary income of an individual determines the purchase of consumer 

durable,  entertainment  and  other  leisure  related  activities.  Consumers  past  spending 

pattern is a governing factor in future consumption, since they cannot suddenly change 

their consumption behavior even when sources of income  gradually become narrow.  

So, buying pattern of people differs with different levels of income.  

d)  Gender 

Gender refers to the characteristics of male and female that are socially constructed. It 

is the range of characteristics pertaining to, and differentiating between femininity and 

masculinity. The two genders are both very important for the marketers because of their 

varying needs, behavior and psychology. Marketers generally adopt this approach of 

neutral marketing which is targeting both men and women simultaneously. Gender is 

the major factor out of all the other factors that affects consumer purchasing behavior. 

When gender differs, the perception of consuming the product is different as well. Men 

and women tend to have different choices while shopping because of the difference in 

their upbringing and socialization. 

e)  Education  

Education is the process of receiving or giving systematic instruction, especially at a 

school or university. The different education levels are included like SLC, Intermediate, 

Bachelor and Masters or more. Education affects how people view things around them.  

The  more  educated  a  person  is,  the  higher  the  level  of  discretion  he  will  employ  in 

making purchases. People's preferences can change with education. Every customer is 

well informed in this era (Hermes, 2000:24). 

2.1.8 Non-store Factors for Online Shoppers Action 

Unlike  a  physical  store,  all  the  goods  in  online  stores  described  through  text,  with 

photos, and with multimedia files. Many online stores will provide links for much extra 

information  about  their  product.  On  the  other  hand,  some  online  shoppers  are  an 

adventurous explorer, fun seeker, shopping lover, and some are technology muddler, 

hate waiting for the product to ship. Consequently, online shoppers action (user action 

 
 
13 

during searching, buying, using products) became a contemporary research area for an 

increasing number of researchers to understand this unique nature of online shopping. 

The non-store distribution channel can be divided into direct selling (off-premises sales) 

and  distance  selling,  including  all  forms  of  electronic  commerce.  Distance  selling 

includes  mail  order,  catalogue  sales,  telephone  solicitations  and  automated  vending.  

Online  shoppers  just  click  or  tap  on  screen  away  from  us  and  also  it  provides  the 

convenience of customizing the time and place of delivery as per our choice and ease. 

Online shoppers indicate electronic commerce to buy products or services directly from 

the seller through the Internet Internet-based or Click and Order business model has 

replaced the traditional Brick and Mortar business model. More people than before are 

using  the  web  to  shop  for  a  wide  variety  of  items,  from  house  to  shoes  to  airplane 

tickets. Now people have multiple options to choose their products and services while 

they are shopping through an online platform. 

The non-store factors are summarized as follows: 

a.  Convenience 

Research shows that convenience of the internet is one of the impact on consumers’ 

willingness to buy online. Online shoppers is available to customers around the clock 

comparing to traditional stores as it is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. A research 

shows that 58 percent chose to shop online because they could shop after hours, when 

the traditional stores are closed and 61 percent of the respondents select to shop online 

because they want to avoid crowds. 

Consumers not only look for products, but also for online services. Some companies 

have online customer services available 24 hours. Therefore, even after business hours, 

customers can ask questions; get necessary support or assistance, which has provided 

convenience to customers. 

b.  Information 

The internet has made the data accessing easier. Given customers rarely have a chance 

to touch and feel the service product online before they make decision, online sellers 

normally  provide  more  product  information  that  customers  can  use  when  making  a 

purchase.  Customers  put the  weight  on  the  information  that  meets their  information 

 
 
14 

needs.  In addition  to  information  from  its  website,  consumers  can also  benefit  from 

product’s reviews by other customers. 

c.  Available Products and Services 

E-commerce has made a transaction easier than it was and online stores offer consumers 

benefits  by  providing  more  variety  of  products  and  services  that  they  choose  from. 

Consumer can find all kinds of products which might be available only online from all 

over the world. Most companies have their own websites to offer products and services 

online, no matter whether they already have their front store or not. Many traditional 

retailers sell certain products only available online to reduce their retailing costs or to 

offer customers with more choices of sizes, colors, or features. 

d.  Cost and Time Efficiency 

Online customers are often offered a better deal; they can get the same product as they 

buy at store at a lower price. Since online stores offer customers with variety of products 

and services, it gives customers more chance to compare price from different websites 

and find the product with lower prices than buying from local retailing stores. 

e.  Online Shoppers Action 

Online shoppers action refers to the process that individuals go through when making 

purchasing decisions. It involves a series of stages that consumers go through, including 

problem recognition, information search, evaluation of alternatives, purchase decision, 

and post-purchase evaluation (Lerner, 2015:69). 

2.1.9 Online Shoppers in Digital Age 

The internet has revolutionized the way consumers shop and interact with businesses, 

giving rise to several trends that are reshaping the retail landscape. One such trend is 

the growing importance of online research in the purchasing process. Today, consumers 

have access to a wealth of information about products and services, including reviews, 

ratings,  and  recommendations  from  other  customers.  As  a  result,  they  are  more 

informed  and  empowered  than  ever  before,  and  are  likely  to  base  their  purchasing 

decisions on a wide range of factors beyond just price and brand reputation. Another 

major trend is the rise of social media as a powerful platform for consumer engagement 

 
 
 
15 

and influence. Social media has given consumers a voice and a platform to share their 

opinions  and  experiences  with  others,  which  can  have  a  significant  impact  on  the 

purchasing decisions of their peers. Businesses are increasingly leveraging this trend 

by creating social media campaigns that encourage customers to share their experiences 

and opinions, and by partnering with influencers to reach wider audiences. The growth 

of  e-commerce  has  also  raised  customer  expectations  for  convenience,  speed,  and 

personalized experiences. Consumers now expect businesses to offer seamless online 

shopping  experiences,  fast  and  reliable  delivery,  and  personalized  recommendations 

based on their past behavior and preferences. In fact, many consumers are willing to 

switch  to  a  competitor  if  they  offer  a  better customer  experience,  making  customer 

satisfaction  a  critical  factor  in  retaining  and  growing  customer  bases.  Finally,  the 

internet and social media have created new marketing channels that businesses can use 

to reach and engage with customers. Targeted advertising allows businesses to reach 

specific  customer  segments  with  personalized  messages,  while  influencer  marketing 

offers a more authentic and organic way to reach wider audiences. These new channels 

are constantly evolving, creating both opportunities and challenges for businesses as 

they seek to navigate the ever-changing digital landscape (McKinsey, 2019:39). 

2.1.10 Models of Consumer Behavior  

a. Traditional Economic Model 

The  traditional  economic  model  of  consumer  behavior  assumes  that  consumers  are 

rational  and  make  decisions  based  on  maximizing  their  utility  or  satisfaction.  This 

model  emphasizes  the  importance  of  cost-benefit  analysis  in  decision-making.  For 

example, a study by Rangel and found that when given a choice between two snacks, 

participants were more likely to choose the one that provided the greatest nutritional 

value per dollar. 

b.  Cognitive Model of Consumer Behavior 

The cognitive  model of consumer behavior emphasizes the role of beliefs, attitudes, 

and perceptions in the decision-making process. This model suggests that consumers 

engage  in  a  series  of  cognitive  processes,  such  as  problem  recognition,  information 

search, evaluation of alternatives, and purchase decision. For example, a study found 

 
 
16 

that consumers are more  likely to  search for information when they perceive a high 

level of risk associated with a purchase. 

c.  Emotional Model of Consumer Behavior 

The  emotional  model  of  consumer  behavior  emphasizes  the  role  of  emotions  and 

affective states in the decision-making process. This model suggests that emotions can 

influence behavior, such as by  motivating consumers to  make a purchase or avoid a 

particular  product.  For  example,  a  study  by  found  that  emotions  such  as  anger  and 

disgust can lead consumers to make riskier choices. 

d. Social Model of Consumer Behavior 

The social model of consumer behavior emphasizes the role of social influences, such 

as culture, family, and reference groups, in the decision-making process. This model 

suggests that social identity can affect consumer behavior, such as by influencing the 

products  or  brands  that  consumers  prefer.  For  example,  a  study  found  that  cultural 

values, such as individualism or collectivism, can influence the types of products that 

consumers prefer (Zhou, 2020:78). 

2.1.11 Online Reviews and Recommendation of Online Shopping 

Online reviews and recommendations have been found to be influential in consumers' 

online shoppers action. A study found that 88% of consumers trust online reviews as 

much as personal recommendations from friends or family members. Moreover, 72% 

of consumers will take action only after reading a positive review, while 88% will be 

discouraged from purchasing a product  after reading negative reviews  The impact of 

online reviews on consumer behavior has been attributed to the social influence theory, 

which  suggests  that  people's  attitudes,  beliefs,  and  behavior  are  influenced  by  the 

people around them (Hogg & Vaughan, 2018). Consumers perceive online reviews as 

a  form  of  word-of-mouth  communication,  which  is  perceived  as  more  credible  and 

trustworthy than advertising messages from brands (Vaidya, 2019:65). 

2.1.12 E-commerce Infrastructure and Logistics of Online Shopping 

E-commerce infrastructure and logistics are essential components of online shopping 

that  can  significantly  impact  consumer  behavior.  Several  studies  have  explored  the 

 
 
17 

various  aspects  of  e-commerce  infrastructure  and  logistics  that  influence  online 

shoppers action. Website design is a crucial factor that affects consumers' perception of 

e-commerce  websites.  A  study  found  that  website  design  significantly  influences 

consumers' trust in the website and their intention to make a purchase. A well-designed 

website that is easy to navigate and provides a secure checkout process can encourage 

consumers to make a purchase. Payment gateways are another critical component of e-

commerce  infrastructure.  Payment  security  is  the  most  critical  factor  influencing 

consumers'  trust  in  e-commerce  websites.  Reliable  payment  gateways  that  offer  a 

variety of payment options can increase consumers' trust in the website and the brand 

(Sahin, 2011:78). 

2.2 Empirical Review 

2.2.1 Review of Journal and Articles 

Bucko et al. (2018) researched on “Online Shopping: Factors that Affect Consumer 

Purchasing Behavior”.  The  objective  of  this  research  was  to  determine  factors  that 

affect the consumers’ willingness to purchase product from the online store. Correlation 

Analysis  and  Confirmatory  Factor  Analysis  were  used  to  analyze  the  data.  The 

researchers found that the factor of price explained the largest part of variance in the 

data. The price was especially important for university students, as in majority of cases, 

they are not employed and their financial budget is limited.  

Chitrakar  (2018)  reviewed  on  “Online  Shopping:  Consumer  Behaviour  and 

Competitor Analysis in Nepal”. The aim of the research was to find out how the factors 

of consumer behavior is affecting the online shopping as well as the recognized the 

dominant competitors and how they were reacting towards growing trend in the market 

The researcher used Multi- Regression Analysis for analyzing the data. The findings 

were: Trust  issues were still vulnerable in online shopping business. Awareness was 

shown by the consumers when exposed to tangible promotions. People tended to follow 

the  traditional  business  method  and  were  influenced  with  decision  making  of  their 

companion. In conclusion, people surfing through the internet were not going through 

online shopping websites so it should be made attractive to lure the customer’s schemes 

and discounts. Customers had trust issues so it should be maintained by satisfying their 

needs and building trust.  

 
 
 
18 

Rungsrisawat  et  al.  (2019)  researched  on  “Factors  Determining  Consumer Buying 

Behavior  in  Online  Shopping”.  The  objective  of  the  research  was  to  find  out  the 

determining factors that encourage and influence the online buying behavior. This study 

was based on Multiple Regression Analysis and ANOVA Analysis. The findings of this 

study suggested that the hypotheses were accepted which stated that perceived benefit 

and  psychological  factors  (such  as  security,  privacy,  and  trust)  had  a  direct  and 

significant  relationship  with  online  buying  behaviour.  In  conclusion,  Online  buying 

behavior  was  affected  by  perceived  benefits  offered  by  e-commerce  websites  and 

psychological  factors  such  as  truth.  The  regression  model  showed  a  positive 

relationship, which means the higher these factors, the higher will be the online buying 

behaviour.  

Vaidya (2019) researched on “Online Shopping in Nepal: Preferences and Problems”. 

The researcher objective was to find out the reasons behind to prefer online shopping 

by the Nepalese shoppers, and the problems they have been facing while going for it. 

Correlation Analysis and Chi-square test were used to analyze the data. The findings of 

the research were that Time-saving and quick delivery service at the door-step was seen 

as the main reasons for the shoppers to go for online shopping in context to Nepal.  

Gaudel  (2019)  researched  on  “Consumers’  Attitude  Towards  Online  Shopping: 

Factors Influencing Nepali Consumers to Shop Online”. The objective of the research 

was to analyze the Consumer’s attitudes towards online shopping in Nepal. Descriptive 

research method is used to analyze the data. The results of correlation results of age 

indicated that there was a quite strong positive correlation between age and attitude to 

online shopping. From the results the researcher concluded that the most influencing 

and  attractive  factor  among  four  factors  is  convenience,  following  security  that  is 

second  most  influencing  factor,  time  saving  and  website  design/Feature  was  also 

important,  particularly  the  convenience concerns are  very  important  while  shopping 

online.  

Thakur et al. (2020) researched on “A Study on the Online Impulse Buying Behaviour 

During COVID -19”. The main objectives were to study the effect of Covid19 on the 

online  impulse  buying  behavior  and  to  study  impulse  buying  behavior  and  its 

relationship  with  online  sales,  value  for  Money  and  ease  of  shopping.  Descriptive 

Statistics had been used to analyze the data. The researchers found out that younger 

 
 
19 

people are more susceptible to impulse buying and tend to buy more products online if 

they get premium products at lower price and also would instantly buy if a product has 

limited  stock.  In  conclusion,  Impulse  buying  behavior  of  customers  had  increased 

during  pandemic  compared  to  the  times  before.  This  is  because  of  the  fact  that 

consumers spent more time over internet during the lockdown period. Consumers came 

across various online advertisements, offers and discounts.  

Shah and Tendon (2020) researched on “Consciousness of Online Shopping Consumer 

Buying Behaviour”. The objectives were to study the dimension of self-consciousness 

as  a  determinant  of  online  shopper’s  action  and  analyse  the  impact  of  self-

consciousness  on  online  shopping  consumer  behaviour.  The  researchers  used  Multi-

Regression Analysis for analyzing the data. The findings were that there was significant 

impact  of  self-consciousness  on  perceived  usefulness,  perceived  ease  of  use  and 

consumer  behaviour  but  not  on  attitude.  Hence,  it  was  concluded  that  self-

consciousness does not stimulate perceived usefulness of online buyers, perceived ease 

of use is not dominantly  impacted by self-consciousness of online buyers, consumer 

attitude is effectively impacted by self-consciousness when it came to shopping on the 

web and consumer buying behaviour is affected by self-consciousness of Indian online 

buyers.  

Uddin (2020) reviewed on “Factors Affecting Consumers’ Internet Shopping Behavior 

During  the  Covid-19  in  Bangladesh”.  The  aim  of  the  study  was  to  investigate  the 

factors affecting consumers’ internet shopping behavior during the coronavirus disease 

(COVID19) pandemic in Bangladesh. The researcher used multiple regression analysis 

to analyze 13 the data. The study found few influences of the independent variables, 

such as product factor, price factor, time saving factor, payment factor, security factor, 

administrative factor and psychological factor. Results exhibited that all factors except 

price  factor  and  security  factor  had  a  momentous  and  positive  association  with 

consumers’  internet  shopping  behavior  during  the  coronavirus  disease  (COVID-19) 

pandemic in Bangladesh.  

Daroch  et  al.  (2020)  researched  on “A  Study  on  Factors  Limiting  Online  Shopping 

Behavior of Consumers”. This study aimed to investigate consumer behaviour towards 

online shopping, which further examines various factors limiting consumers for online 

shoppers action. The Kaiser–Meyer–Olkin (KMO) measured and Cronbach’s a test was 

 
 
20 

adopted for this research. As per the results total six factors came out from the study 

that restrains consumers to buy from online sites – fear of bank transaction and faith, 

traditional  shopping  more  convenient  than  online  shopping,  reputation  and  services 

provided, experience, insecurity and insufficient product information and lack of trust. 

To be concluded, trust needed to be generated in the customer’s mind, which can be 

done  by  modifying  privacy  and  security  policies.  By  adopting  such  practice,  the 

marketer generated customers’ interest towards online shopping.  

Matz (2021) researched on “Online vs. Offline Shopping, Impact of COVID-19 on the 

Digitalization Process in Austria”. This study aimed to identify the influence of Covid-

19 on the retail industry's digitalization process as well as how it affected the consumers' 

decision to shop online versus offline. For this study, descriptive statistics analysis and 

Kruskal-Wallis tests as well Mann-Whitney U tests were used to analyze the data. On 

the  contrary,  the  study  highlighted  that  consumers  strongly  value  the  high  level  of 

convenience, online shopping contributes to their life. This convenience results from 

factors such as the easiness to see discounts and prices and the greater availability of 

products compared to offline stores.  

Wang (2021) reviewed on “Factors Affecting Online Shopping Behavior in Malaysia”. 

The objective of the research was mainly to determine the influencing factors that affect 

the online shopping. Descriptive Statistics Analysis was mainly used by the researcher 

for  analyzing  the  data.  Cultural  factors,  social  factors,  personal  factors,  and 

psychological  factors  are  important  influencing  factors  found  considering  online 

consumption. The following conclusions were made: Make full use of Internet channels 

and conduct marketing through the Internet to truly reach potential customers, improve 

the  consumer’s  consumption  experience  of  the  company’s  online  shopping  and  to 

establish  a  good  reputation,  create  secondary  consumption,  improve  the  payment 

system, and provide as 11  many payment methods as possible  in order to adapt to a 

wider customer base, with the development of big data technology, it was possible to 

have  a  more  comprehensive  understanding  of  user  needs.  The  quality  of  customer 

experience  promoted  sales  and  customer  retention  more  than  ever  research  method 

theoretically.  It  was  found  that  marketing  communication  process  differs  between 

offline and online consumer decision. Managerial implications are developed for online 

stores to improve their website.  

 
 
21 

Thang et al., (2022) researched on “Factors Influencing Online Shopping Intention: 

An Empirical Study in Vietnam”. The study examined factors that influence shopping 

intention of online consumers in Vietnam. Studied factors include consumers’ attitude, 

subjective norms, perception of behavioral control, perception of usefulness, perceived 

risks  and  trust.  The  researchers  used  exploratory  factor  analysis  (EFA),  correlation 

analysis and regression analysis to analyze the data. The results showed that shopping 

intention of online consumers are positively affected by their attitude, subjective norms, 

perception of behavioral control, perception of usefulness and trust. In contrast, online 

shopping  intention is negatively affected by the perceived risks that online shopping 

could  bring.  Among  those  factors,  the  perception  of  risk  was  shown  to  have  the 

strongest influence to online shopping intention.  

Liao (2023) conducted a study on “Factors Influencing Individuals Online Shopping 

Behavior: A System Review”. The study suggested that there were plenty of factors that 

had an effect on people’s action of consuming on the internet. Those factors influenced 

people’s behavior in a different way from offline shopping. This research aimed at the 

cause that influenced people behavior in a different way from offline shopping.  This 

research aimed at the cause that influenced people’s online shopping behavior. In this 

review, an analysis based on present research aimed at people’s behavior affected by 

the online shopping model.  Unlike offline stores, online shopping offered people the 

unique  consumption  practice  and  shopping  experience.  The  study  also  provided  the 

cohesive knowledge about the research on how online shopping influenced and changed 

peoples shopping behaviors. The results revealed peoples change in shopping behaviors 

during consumption online and provided the basic information for further studies. 

Table 1 

Empirical Review of International Articles 

Date  

Articles 

Writers   

Objectives  Methodology 

Findings 

 (2018)  Online 

Bucko et al. 

shopping: 
factors 
that 
affect  consumer 
purchasing 
behavior 

Determine 
factors 
affect 
consumers' 
willingness 

that 

to 

Correlation 
analysis 
confirmatory 
factor analysis 

and 

Price is the  most 
important  factor 
affecting 
consumers' 
willingness 

to 

 
 
 
 (2018)  online 

Chitrakar 

shopping: 
consumer 
behaviour  and 
competitor 
analysis in nepal 

Rungsrisawat,  et 
al. 

 (2019)  Factors 

determining 
consumer 
buying behavior 
in 
online 
shopping 

purchase 
products online 

and 

Identify  factors 
affecting 
consumer 
behavior 
dominant 
competitors  in 
the  Nepalese 
online 
shopping 
market 

Determine 
factors 
that 
encourage  and 
influence 
online  buying 
behavior 

Multi-
regression 
analysis 

Multiple 
regression 
analysis 
ANOVA 

and 

(2019)  Online 

Vaidya 

in 

shopping 
nepal: 
preferences  and 
problems 

 (2019)  Consumers’ 

Gaudel 

attitude  towards 
online 
shopping: 
factors 
influencing 
nepali 
consumers 
shop online 

to 

for 

Correlation 
analysis 
and 
chi-square test 

Identify 
reasons 
Nepalese 
shoppers 
prefer 
shopping 
problems 
face 

to 
online 
and 
they 

Descriptive 
research 
method 

Analyze Nepali 
consumers' 
attitudes 
towards  online 
shopping 

22 

purchase 
products online 

issues, 

Trust 
awareness 
through  tangible 
promotions,  and 
traditional 
decision-making 
influence  online 
shoppers  action 
in Nepal 

Perceived benefit 
and 
psychological 
factors  (security, 
and 
privacy, 
trust)  have 
a 
significant 
relationship  with 
online 
buying 
behavior 

Time-saving  and 
delivery 
quick 
the 
service  at 
doorstep  are  the 
main  reasons  for 
Nepalese 
shoppers 
prefer 
shopping 

to 
online 

time-
and 

Convenience, 
security, 
saving, 
website 
design/features 
are 
factors 
influencing 
Nepali 
consumers 
shop online 

important 

to 

Thakur et al. 

 (2020)  A  study  on  the 
online 
impulse 
buying 
behaviour 
during COVID -
19 

Descriptive 
statistics 
analysis. 

the 
To  study 
effect of Covid-
19  on  online 
impulse buying 
behavior and its 
relationship 

Younger  people 
more 
are 
susceptible 
to 
impulse  buying 
and  tend  to  buy 
products 
more 

 
 
online 
with 
sales,  value  for 
and 
money, 
ease 
of 
shopping. 

online 

 (2020)  Consciousness 
of 
shopping 
consumer 
buying 
behaviour 

Shah and Tendon  To  study 

online 

the 
impact  of  self-
consciousness 
on 
shopping 
consumer 
behavior 
India. 

in 

Multi-
regression 
analysis. 

 (2020)  Factors 

Uddin 

affecting 
consumers’ 
internet 
shopping 
behavior  during 
the  covid-19  in 
Bangladesh 

 (2020)  A 

on 
study 
factors  limiting 
online  shopping 

Daroch, et al. 

Investigate 
factors 
affecting 
internet 
shopping 
behavior during 
COVID-19 
pandemic 
Bangladesh 

in 

Investigate 
factors  limiting 
consumer 
online 

Multiple 
regression 
analysis 

Kaiser-
Meyer-Olkin 
and 

23 

at 

online if they get 
premium 
products 
a 
lower price or if a 
has 
product 
limited 
stock. 
Impulse  buying 
behavior 
increased  during 
the pandemic due 
to increased time 
the 
on 
spent 
internet, 
exposure 
online 
advertisements, 
and  offers  and 
discounts. 

to 

Self-
consciousness 
has  a  significant 
impact 
on 
perceived 
usefulness, 
perceived ease of 
use, 
and 
consumer 
behavior  but  not 
on 
attitude. 
Consumer 
buying  behavior 
is affected by the 
self-
consciousness  of 
Indian 
online 
buyers. 

factors 
All 
except  price  and 
security  had  a 
positive 
association  with 
consumers' 
internet shopping 
behavior 

Fear  of  bank 
transaction  and 
faith, 
convenience, 
reputation 

and 

 
 
behavior 
consumers 

of 

shopping 
behavior 

Cronbach's  a 
test 

Matz 

vs. 

 (2021)  Online 
offline 
shopping, 
impact 
of 
COVID-19  on 
the 
digitalization 
process 
Austria 

in 

(2021) 

Wang 

Factors 
affecting  online 
shopping 
behavior 
Malaysia 

in 

Descriptive 
statistics 
analysis, 
Kruskal-
tests, 
Wallis 
and  Mann-
Whitney 
U 
tests. 

Descriptive 
statistics 
analysis. 

To  identify  the 
of 
influence 
Covid-19 
on 
the 
digitalization 
process  in  the 
industry 
retail 
and 
it 
how 
affected 
consumers' 
decision 
to 
shop  online  vs. 
in 
offline 
Austria. 

To  determine 
the  influencing 
that 
factors 
affect 
online 
shopping 
behavior 
Malaysia. 

in 

24 

and 

services 
provided, 
experience, 
insecurity 
insufficient 
product 
information,  and 
lack 
trust 
of 
online  shoppers 
action 

Consumers 
value 
strongly 
the  convenience 
online  shopping 
provides, such as 
to 
easy  access 
and 
discounts 
prices 
and 
greater  product 
availability 
compared 
offline stores. 

to 

include 
social, 
and 

Important 
influencing 
factors 
cultural, 
personal, 
psychological 
factors.  Online 
stores 
should 
make  full  use  of 
internet 
channels, 
improve 
consumer's 
consumption 
experience, 
establish  a  good 
reputation, 
provide  multiple 
payment 
methods, 
and 
utilize  big  data 
technology 
to 
understand  user 
needs. 

the 

(2022) 

Factors 
influencing 

Thang et al. 

To 
factors 

examine 
that 

Exploratory 
factor 

Shopping 
intention 

of 

 
 
online  shopping 
intention:  An 
empirical  study 
in Vietnam 

influence 
shopping 
intention 
online 
consumers 
Vietnam. 

analysis, 
correlation 
analysis,  and 
regression 
analysis. 

of 

in 

25 

is 

of 

by 

online 
consumers 
positively 
affected 
attitude, 
subjective 
norms, 
perception 
behavioral 
control, 
perception 
of 
usefulness,  and 
trust.  Perceived 
risks  negatively 
affect 
online 
shopping 
intention,  with 
the perception of 
risk  having  the 
strongest 
influence. 

(2023) 

Liao,  

Factors 
influencing 
individual’s 
online  shopping 
behavior: 
A 
system review 

Synthetic 
literature 
research using 
15 articles  

To examine the 
factors 
influencing  the 
individuals 
online 
shopping 
behavior 

Online  shopping 
the  most 
is 
essential  part  of 
people 
lives. 
There  are  plenty 
that 
factors 
of 
affect  the  people 
of 
action 
consuming 
on 
internet.  

2.2.2 Review of Thesis 

Kundu (2015) has carried out a research on “Factors Influencing the Online Shopping 

Behavior  of  Consumers  in  India”.  The  study  found  that  consumer  trust,  perceived 

usefulness,  and  perceived  ease  of  use  were  significant  factors  influencing  online 

shoppers action. The results were consistent with previous research that had shown that 

trust and ease of use were important drivers of online shopper’s action across different 

countries. The study provided useful insights into the factors online shoppers action in 

India, which helped e-commerce companies to develop effective marketing strategies 

to target Indian consumers. 

Bhattarai  (2018)  researched  on  the  topic  entitled  “The  Factors  Influencing  Online 

Shopping Behavior Among Consumers in Kathmandu Valley”. The study used a survey 

 
 
 
26 

questionnaire to collect data from 250 respondents. The variables included in the study 

were perceived benefits of online shopping, perceived risks of online shopping, trust, 

attitude  towards  online  shopping,  subjective  norm,  and  demographic  variables.  The 

findings of the study revealed that perceived benefits, trust, and subjective norm had a 

positive and significant impact on online shopper’s action, while perceived risks had a 

negative  and  significant  impact  on  online  shopper’s  action.  Attitude  towards  online 

shopping  was  also  found  to  have  a  positive  and  significant  impact  online  shoppers 

action. The study provided valuable insights into the factors impacting online shoppers 

action in Kathmandu valley. 

Doriyat (2018) conducted the study on “Understanding Online Shopping Behavior in 

Context of Social Media” and examined how social media platforms such as Facebook, 

Twitter, and Instagram are used by retailers to influence consumers and drive sales. The 

article  explained  that  social  media  had  become  an  increasingly  important  tool  for 

retailers  to  reach  and  engage  with  their  target  audiences.  Social  media  platforms 

provided  retailers  with  the  ability  to  create  content,  interact  with  customers,  and 

promote products in a more personalized and engaging way than traditional advertising 

methods. For example, retailers used social media to showcase products through visual 

content,  offer  promotions  and  discounts,  and  encourage  customer  reviews  and 

feedback. The article also discussed how social media had changed the way consumers 

shop online. Consumers were increasingly using social media platforms to discover and 

research products before making a purchase. They followed retailers on social media to 

stay up-to-date on new products or promotions, or use social media platforms to read 

reviews and see how other consumers have interacted with a product. In addition, the 

article  examined  the  role  of  social  media  influencers  in  shaping  consumers'  online 

shoppers action. Influencers were individuals with a large  following on social  media 

who have the ability to influence consumer behavior through product endorsements and 

recommendations. Retailers partnered with influencers to promote their products to a 

wider audience and leverage the influencers' credibility and trustworthiness with their 

followers. 

Hamzah  (2019)  researched  on  “The  Role  Online  Shopping  Behavior  on  the  Local 

Product of Saudi-Arabia. The study examined how the design factors, such as website 

layout,  color  schemes,  and  font  choices  can  influence  consumers'  perceptions  of  a 

 
 
 
27 

retailer  and  their  likelihood  to  make  a  purchase.  The  article  explained  that  website 

design plays a crucial role in creating a positive user experience and can significantly 

impact  a  consumer's  decision  to  purchase  a  product.  For  example,  a  website  with  a 

cluttered and confusing layout could have deterred potential customers, while a website 

with  a  clean  and  simple  design  could  have  enhance  the  shopping  experience  and 

increase the likelihood of a purchase. The article also discussed the importance of color 

schemes  in  website  design.  Colors  could  have  evoked  different  emotions  and  can 

influence  consumers'  perceptions  of  a  retailer  and  its  products.  For  example,  warm 

colors such as red and orange can create a sense of urgency and excitement, while cool 

colors such as blue and green can create a sense of calmness and trust. In addition, the 

article examined the impact of font choices on consumers' perceptions of a retailer. Font 

choices  could  convey  different  tones  and  personalities,  and  retailers  must  carefully 

choose fonts that align with their brand identity and target audience. 

Johnson (2020) has carried out a research on “Factors Affecting the Online Purchase 

Intentions: A Study of Generation Z in the United State”. The study explored the factors 

of the purchase intentions of Generation Z consumers in the United States. The study 

used a quantitative survey method and data were collected from 340 respondents using 

convenience  sampling.  The  results  of  the  study  showed  that  online  easiness  has  a 

significant  positive  impact  on  consumer  purchase  intentions  among  Generation  Z 

consumers in the United States.  

Shrestha  (2020)  researched  on  “Factors  Influencing  Online  Shopping  Behavior  of 

Consumers in Kathmandu Valley" and aimed to identify the factors that influence online 

shoppers action among consumers in Kathmandu Valley, Nepal. The research used a 

quantitative  survey  method,  and  data  were  collected  from  400  respondents  using 

convenience  sampling.  The  study  analyzed  the  data  using  descriptive  statistics, 

correlation analysis, and regression analysis. The study found that perceived usefulness, 

perceived ease of use, perceived risk, and social influence significantly influence online 

shoppers  action  among  consumers  in  Kathmandu  Valley.  Specifically,  perceived 

usefulness and perceived ease of use were found to have a positive impact on  online 

shoppers action, while perceived risk had a negative impact. The study also found that 

social influence had a significant impact on online shoppers action, indicating that the 

opinions and recommendations of others play a role in consumer decision-making.  

 
 
28 

Kim (2021) conducted a study on “An Examination of the Relationship between Online 

Method  of  Buying  and  Consumer  Buying  Intention”.  The  study  used  a  quantitative 

survey  method,  and  data  were  collected  from  550  respondents  using  convenience 

sampling.  The  results  of  the  study  showed  that  online  way  of  selling  product  had  a 

significant positive impact on consumer buying intention.  

Gajurel  (2022)  has  conducted  a  research  on  “The  Factors  Affecting  the  Online 

Shopping Behavior of Consumers in Various Countries, Including Vietnam, Pakistan, 

Malaysia,  India,  and  Nepal”.  Factors  such  as  website  design,  product  information, 

trust, convenience, perceived value, and perceived usefulness have been identified as 

significant influencers of online shopper’s action. The studies have found that consumer 

trust and perceived ease of use are consistent factors impacting online shoppers action 

across  different countries.  Other  factors  such as  cultural and  socio-economic  factors 

may  also  play  a  role  in  influencing  online  shoppers  action.  Overall,  these  empirical 

studies  provide  valuable  insights  into  the  complex  nature  of  online  shoppers  action, 

which  can  help  e-commerce  companies  to  develop  effective  marketing  strategies  to 

target consumers in different countries. 

Sah (2023) has conducted a study on “Factors Affecting Online Shopping Behaviour of 

Boutique Products in Kathmandu Valley”. The study aimed to learn more about how 

people shopped for boutique products online and identified the major influential factors. 

The research used descriptive and casual research design for the study. The data was 

obtained from 325 respondents through convenience sampling. The study showed that 

trust, firm reputation, and ease of use were significant at 5 percent level of significance. 

However,  there  was  insignificant  relationship  between  price  and  online  shopping 

behavior. Firm reputation and ease of use were the major influential factors of online 

shopping of boutique products. The study helped the boutique business to develop their 

strategies as per the need of the consumer.  

2.3 Research Gap 

While  online  shopping  has  gained  popularity  worldwide,  there  is  a  lack  of 

comprehensive research specifically focused on understanding the  Factors Impacting 

Online Shopper’s Action in Kathmandu Valley, Nepal. Despite the increasing adoption 

of online shoppers in this region, there is limited empirical evidence on the key drivers, 

 
 
29 

motivations, and barriers that shape online shoppers in the online shopping context. The 

existing  literature  on  online  shopper’s  action  predominantly  stems  from  studies 

conducted in Western countries, and there is a dearth of research that takes into account 

the unique cultural, economic, and social factors specific to Kathmandu Valley. 

Therefore,  there  is  a  need  for  research  that  specifically  investigates  the  factors 

influencing  online  shoppers  action  within  the  context  of  Kathmandu  Valley. 

Understanding the specific factors that drive consumers to engage in online shopping, 

such as convenience, product variety, cost, and time efficiency, can provide valuable 

insights for businesses, marketers, and policymakers to develop effective strategies and 

tailor their offerings to the preferences and needs of shoppers in Kathmandu Valley. 

Additionally,  exploring  the  barriers  and  challenges  faced  by  shoppers  in  adopting 

online shopping can help identify areas for improvement and intervention to enhance 

the online shoppers experience in this specific region. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 

CHAPTER III  

RESEARCH METHODOLOGY 

This chapter presents all the necessary steps to be followed throughout this research 

work  in  order  to  achieve  and  accomplish  the  objective  of  the  study.  Research 

methodology  discussed  in  this  chapter  helps  to  guide  the  research  study  providing 

different  issues  and  aspects.  It  systematically  solves  the  various  sequential  steps  to 

adopt by a researcher in studying problem with the objectives in view.  

This chapter presents a description of the research design and methodology used in the 

study.  Also,  it  provides  an  overview  of  the  research  study,  a  description  of  the 

instrument used for data gathering, targeted population, sampling procedure, sources 

of data used and methods of data analysis, presentation and interpretation. 

3.1 Research Design 

Descriptive  and  causal  comparative  research  design  has  been  used  in  this  study. 

Research  design  is  the  conceptual  structure  within  which  research  is  performed.  It 

serves as a framework for the study, guiding the collection and analysis of the data, the 

research instruments to be utilized, and the sampling plan to be.  It is the conceptual 

structure  within  which  research  is  conducted;  it  constitutes  the  blueprint  for  the 

collection, measurement and analysis of data. 

The quantitative method of research has been used in this research in order to collect 

realistic,  updated  and  practical  empirical  data.  The  research  design  undertaken  is 

descriptive in nature and specifically created questionnaire was sent to the target group 

of people to collect the pertinent information Descriptive, experimental, correlational, 

causal-comparative and experimental are the major types of research design (Sileyew, 

2019). This study was relied on descriptive research design. It is theory based research 

design which emphasis on addressing how, what, when, and where of research queries 

rather  than  why  of  the  research  subject  (da  Silva,  2017).  There  are  different  views 

regarding research design but overall it contains whole reports contents. It is the overall 

plan of proposed study to specify the appropriate research method and procedure for 

obtaining specific finding valid objectively accurate and economically as possible. The 

overall  research  work  is  conducted  through  collection  of  primary  data.  Similarly, 

 
 
31 

primary data is collected through questionnaire filled up by the people of Kathmandu 

valley who does the shopping through the online medium. 

3.2 Population and Sample 

This study was based on primary source of data. Structured set of 7 point Likert scale 

questionnaire  were  used  to  extract  the  information  from  the  people  involved  in  the 

online  shopping.  Convenience  sampling  method  was  used  for  the  study  as  it  was 

appropriate for this study because this technique is one of the best to reach the target 

respondents.  The  sampling  technique  generally  assumes  a  homogeneous  population 

that means the member of population has similar characteristics. Due to the resource, 

time  and  financial  constraint,  this  method  was  appropriate  way  to  reach  the 

respondents.  The  target  population  for  this  study  was  the  entire  people  of  the 

Kathmandu valley who are involved in the online shopping. The study covers people 

of different age group, qualification level. In this total of 400 samples are taken for the 

study. 

3.3 Nature and Sources of Data 

This  research  is  basically  based  on  primary  sources  of  data  collected  through  the 

opinion survey carried out to the different age group of the consumers of Kathmandu 

Valley. 

Primary Data 

Primary data source mainly includes questionnaire in order to collect information from 

the respondent who are the  online shoppers  in Kathmandu valley.  The primary data 

were collected by self-administered methods of collection. First part is concerned with 

the  respondent’s  demographic  features  like  Age,  Occupation,  Income,  Gender  and 

Education. The second part is divided in to the basis of the study carried forward such 

as  Convenience,  Information,  Available  Products and  Services,  Cost  and  Efficiency 

and Online Shoppers Action. 

Parts  have  different  questions  to  know  about  the  online  shopper’s  action  of  the 

shopper’s  living  in  the  Kathmandu  valley.  Response  on  each  question  is  collected 

 
 
32 

through the different Likert scale. The total sample size taken for the study was 400 

respondents.   

3.4 Instrumentation of Data Collection 

Structured  questionnaires  were  self-administered  to  the  different  respondents  of  the 

Kathmandu valley. The entire questionnaires were distributed to the respondents who 

are engaged in the online shopping. When physical distribution of questionnaire took 

longer time, the questions were also developed in online using Google forms and then 

the  link  was  circulated.  The  purpose  of  the  study  was  properly  defined  to  every 

respondent on the questionnaire page so that the respondents would understand why 

this research was being done. This also avoided any suspicious, biases and motivated 

them to provide their independent opinions on the question asked. 

Moreover, to have valid and reliable data, questions were formulated considering the 

easiness and understandability and avoiding any vague and double meaning words so 

that the respondents could easily answer the given question without any confusion and 

help minimize any error. 

3.5 Methods of Analysis 

To achieve the objectives of the study, various financial, statistical and accounting tools 

have been used this study. The analysis of data will be made according to the pattern 

of data available. Data analysis task was done through use of descriptive statistics like 

frequencies, percentage, mean standard deviation and coefficient of variation. Apart, 

pictorial presentation of data is also kept through charts and graphs. Data collected from 

the  respondent  will  be  coded  first  and  entered  in  the  Statistical  Package  for  Social 

Sciences (SPSS), computer software for data analysis purpose. Also MS- Excel will be 

used to present the finding in form of tables, charts and figures. The various calculated 

results  obtained  through  financial,  accounting  and  statistic  tools  are tabulated  under 

different headings. Then they are compared with each other to interpret the results. 

3.6 Statistical Tools 

Statistical  tools  are  mathematical  formulas,  models  and  techniques  that  are  used  in 

statistical analysis of raw research data. The statistical tools employed in this study tries 

 
 
to analyze the online shoppers action of the people living in Kathmandu valley using 

33 

the panel data.  

3.6.1 Correlation Analysis 

This design will adopt to identify the direction and magnitude  of linear relationship 

between different pairs of variables. It shows how two variables move together and 

also shows the degree of association between them. The relationship will explain by 

using  bi-variant  Pearson  correlation  coefficient.  It  measures  correlation  coefficient 

between two variables X and y is usually denoted by 'r' and can be obtained as: 

r =

Where, 

n = number of observation in series X and Y 

X = sum of observation in series X 

Y = sum of observation in series Y 

X2 = sum of squared observation in series X 

Y2 = sum of squared observation n series y 

XY = sum of the product of observations in series X and Y 

The value of correlation coefficient ranges from -1 to +1. 

r = 0 means variables are correlated lies between -1 and +1 

 r = -1 means perfect negative correlation between the variables 

 r = +1 means positive correlation between the variables 

3.6.2 Descriptive Statistics 

Descriptive statistics helps to understand and describe the features of specific data set 

by  giving  short  summaries  about  the  sample  and  measure  of  the  data.  The  most 

recognized  types  of  descriptive  statics  are  mean,  median,  mode.  Standard  deviation 

which are used at almost all level of math and statistic. Among all descriptive statistics 

this study used mean and standard deviation. 

2222YYnXXnYXXYn 
 
 
 
 
 
34 

Mean  

The  mean  is  the  measure  of  central  tendency.  It  gives  the  idea  about  the  average 

statistics from the sample observations. 

Mean (X) =

∑ X
N

Where, 

X  =  Value  of  Work  Environment,  Job  Stress,  Career  Growth,  Compensation  and 

Employee Turnover 

N = Total number of sample observation 

Standard Deviation 

The standard deviation is a measure of the amount of variation or dispersion of a set of 

value. 

Where, 

Standard Deviation(δ) =   √∑(𝑋 − 𝑋)
𝑛 − 1

2

X=  Value  of  Convenience,  Information,  Availability,  Time  and  Cost  and  Online 

Shopping Behavior 
𝑋̅= Mean value of variables 

n = Total number of sample observation 

Coefficient of Variation: Coefficient of variation (CV) is a statistical  measure of the 

relative dispersion of data points in a data series around the mean. 

Coefficient of Variation(CV) =

σ
𝑋̅

× 100%  

Where, 

σ = Standard deviation 
𝑋̅ = Mean value 

 
 
 
 
 
 
35 

3.7 Research Framework and Definition of Variables 

Conceptual  frameworks  aid  the  researcher  to  precisely  discover  the  variables  of  the 

study and explains the relationship exist among them.  It provides the foundation for 

establishing its creditability. 

Figure 1 Research Framework 

                       Independent Variables 

   Dependent Variable 

Online Shoppers Action 

Convenience 

Information 

Availability 

Cost and Time Efficiency 

(Source: Wang, 2021; Vaidya, 2019) 

Independent Variables 

i.  Convenience 

Convenience refers to the ease and comfort of  online shoppers, allowing shoppers to 

shop at their own convenience without any time or location constraints. According to a 

study by Wolfinbarger and Gilly (2001), convenience is a key factor that influences 

online shoppers action. The convenience of online shopping enables shoppers to save 

time and effort compared to traditional brick-and-mortar shopping methods. 

ii. 

 Information 

Information availability is a crucial factor for online shopper’s action. Online platforms 

provide shoppers with detailed product descriptions, specifications, customer reviews, 

and ratings, allowing them to make informed purchase decisions. A study by Ha and 

Stoel  (2009)  found  that  information  availability  positively  influences  shoppers 

perceived value and purchase intention in online shopping. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 

iii.  Availability 

Availability refers to the accessibility and availability of products or services online. It 

includes factors such as the range of products offered, stock availability, and delivery 

options.  Research  by  Al-Maghrabi,  Dennis,  and  Halliday  (2011)  highlighted  the 

importance of availability as a determinant of online shopper’s action. Consumers are 

more likely to engage in online shopping when they perceive that the desired products 

or services are readily available. 

iv.  Cost and Time Efficiency 

Cost and Time Efficiency considerations significantly impact online shoppers action. 

Online shopping provides convenience in terms of time savings as shoppers can quickly 

browse and purchase products without physically visiting stores. Additionally, online 

retailers often offer competitive prices, discounts, and cost-saving benefits such as free 

shipping. A study by Jarvenpaa and Todd (1997) found that time and cost savings are 

influential factors in shopper’s decision to shop online. 

Dependent Variable 

  Online Shoppers Action 

Online shoppers action refers to consumers' actions and decisions when engaging  in 

online  shopping  activities.  It  includes  various  aspects  such  as  product  browsing, 

purchase  decisions,  cart  abandonment,  and  post-purchase  behavior.  Online  shoppers 

action is influenced by several factors, including convenience, information availability, 

availability of desired products, and considerations related to time and cost. 

 
 
 
 
 
37 

CHAPTER IV 

RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 

This chapter provides systematic presentation and analysis of primary data. Different 

statistical and regression model described in chapter three have been used for the study 

purpose. The first section deals with the presentation and analysis of the primary data 

and presents the results of questionnaire. The third section of this chapter deals with 

concluding remarks associated on the basis of findings from primary data analysis.  

4.1 Results 

The data collected from aforementioned sources has been restructured, extracted and 

documented in the systematic manner by using tables in order to reach to the reasonable 

conclusions. The questionnaire was distributed to respondent in market and collected 

data, arranged, refined and presented in suitable format. The data was analyzed through 

the  various  tools  of  statistics  such  as  percentage  mean,  standard  deviation  and 

correlation. 

4.1.1 Demographic Analysis of the Respondents 

We first analyze and interpret the survey data and response taken from the market place 

from the real consumer. From 400 respondents involved in online shopping, the entire 

questionnaire  was  used  for  analysis.  The  following  tables  show  the  profile  of  the 

respondent’s  profile  by  gender,  age,  education,  personal  income,  occupation  of 

respondents while purchasing by online shoppers. 

Table 2 

Age of the Respondents 

Age Group 

Frequency 

Percentage 

Cumulative Percentage 

Below 20 

20-40 

40-60 

Above 60 

Total 

72 

294 

30 

4 

400 

(Source: Survey, 2023) 

18 

73.5 

7.5 

1 

100 

18 

91.5 

99 

100 

 
 
 
Table  2  shows  that  72  respondents  belong  to  the  age  group  below20.  The  higher 

respondents belong under the age  group of 20-40. 30 respondents belong to the age 

group 40-60. Only 4 respondents belong to the age group of above 60. 

38 

Table 3 

Gender of the respondents 

Gender 

Female 

Male 

Total 

Frequency 

Percentage 

Cumulative Percentage 

180 

220 

400 

45 

55 

100 

45 

100 

(Source: Survey, 2023) 

Table 3 shows that 180 respondents are females whereas 220  respondents are males 

respectively. 

Table 4 

Education of the Respondents 

Education 

Frequency 

Percentage 

Cumulative Percentage 

SLC 

Intermediate 

Bachelor 

Master or above 

Total 

54 

62 

120 

158 

400 

(Source: Survey, 2023) 

13.5 

15.5 

30 

41 

100 

13.5 

29 

59 

100 

Table 4 shows the different education level of the respondents. 54 respondents come 

under  SLC  group.  62  respondents  lie  in  Intermediate  group.  120  respondents  come 

under the Bachelor group. Lastly, 158 respondents are from the Master or above.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39 

Table 5 

Monthly Income of the Respondents 

Monthly Income 

Frequency 

Percentage 

Cumulative Percentage 

Less than 10000 

10000-20000 

20000-30000 

More than 30000 

Total 

106 

206 

34 

52 

400 

(Source: Survey, 2023) 

26.5 

51.5 

8.5 

13.5 

100 

26.5 

78 

86.5 

100 

Table 5 shows that 106 respondents earn less than 10000 per month. 205 respondents 

earn  the  income  between  10000-20000  per  month.  34  respondents  earn  the  income 

between  20000-30000  per  month.  Lastly,  52  respondents  earn  more than  30000  per 

month. 

Table 6 

Occupation of the Respondents 

Occupation 

Business 

Government Employee 

Private Employee 

Student 

Total 

(Source: Survey, 2023) 

Frequency 

Percentage  Cumulative Percentage 

48 

14 

220 

116 

400 

12.5 

3.5 

55 

29 

100 

12.5 

16 

71 

100 

Table 6 shows the different occupation of the respondents. 48  respondents own their 

business. 14 respondents work in government office. 220 respondents work as a private 

employee. Lastly, 116 respondents are students.  

4.1.2 Descriptive Statistics 

Descriptive statistics provide summaries about the sample and about the observations 

that have made. Descriptive statistics is done representing mean and standard deviation 

 
 
 
 
40 

of individual scale  item and overall variable too. It  shows the summarization of the 

data. 

The responses under both dependent and independent variables of the data sample were 

preliminarily  analyzed.  This  preliminary  analysis  included  search  for  missing  data, 

estimation  of  outliers  and  estimation  of  mean,  median  and  standard  deviation. 

Descriptive statistics has been made to understand the facts regarding the variables.  

Table 7 

Descriptive Analysis of Convenience 

Codes 

Statements 

Mean 

Std. 

Deviation 

C1 

It is a great advantage to be able to shop at any time of 

2.44 

1.4221 

the day. 

C2  Online shopping is as secure as traditional shopping. 

2.64 

1.028 

C3  Online shopping is risky. 

3.32 

1.222 

C4  Based  on  my  past  experience,  I  believe  that  the 

2.53 

1.040 

transaction through the online store is safe and reliable. 

Overall Average 

2.74 

0.72 

Table 7 shows actual responses range from 1 to 5 scale; (1) indicates strongly agree, 

(2)  indicates  agree,  (3)  indicates  neutral,  (4)  indicates  disagree  and  (5)  indicates 

strongly disagree. The mean response of respondents on online shopping ranges from 

2.44 to 3.32. Among them, the most significant observations of the respondents were 

found on "Online shopping is risky." with the highest  mean value of 3.32 where the 

least mean 2.44 was observed on “It is a great advantage to be able to shop at any time 

of the day.” 

 
 
 
 
 
41 

Table 8  

Descriptive Analysis of Information 

Code 

Statements 

Mean 

Std. 

Deviation 

I5 

I6 

I7 

The information provided on online store are clear. 

2.64 

1.105 

The information provided on online store are accurate. 

2.68 

1.113 

In the online store, I find the information to be logically 

2.63 

1.147 

presented. 

I8 

I find the information on the shopping site to be well-

2.48 

1.154 

organized. 

Overall Average 

2.62 

0.95 

Table 8 shows actual responses range from 1 to 5 scale; (1) indicates strongly agree, 

(2)  indicates  agree,  (3)  indicates  neutral,  (4)  indicates  disagree  and  (5)  indicates 

strongly disagree. The mean response of respondents on online shopping ranges from 

2.48 to 2.68. Among them, the most significant observations of the respondents were 

found  on  "The  information  provided  on  online  store  are accurate."  with  the  highest 

mean value of 2.68 where the least mean 2.48 was observed on “I find the information 

on the shopping site to be well-organized. 

Table 9 

Descriptive Analysis of Availability 

Codes 

Statements 

Mean 

Std. 

Deviation 

A9 

The customer service representative is available to talk 

2.58 

1.096 

with me. 

A10 

A11 

My problem is resolved efficiently. 

2.64 

1.146 

Both  local  and  international  products  are  available  to 

2.44 

1.319 

shop online. 

Overall Average 

2.56 

0.95 

Table 9 shows actual responses range from 1 to 5 scale; (1) indicates strongly agree, 

(2)  indicates  agree,  (3)  indicates  neutral,  (4)  indicates  disagree  and  (5)  indicates 

strongly disagree. The mean response of respondents on online shopping ranges from 

 
 
 
2.44 to 2.64. Among them, the most significant observations of the respondents were 

found on "My problem  is resolved efficiently.”  with the highest mean value of 2.64 

where the least mean 2.44 was observed on “Both local and international products are 

42 

available to shop online.” 

Table 10  

Descriptive Analysis of Time and Cost 

Codes 

Statements 

Mean 

Std. 

Deviation 

TC12  The  delivery  of  the  product  and  services  are  on 

2.47 

1.149 

time. 

TC13 

Shopping on Internet is cheaper than going to the 

3.14 

1.155 

store. 

TC14  The delivery fees are high. 

2.97 

1.180 

TC15  We  have  an  advantage  to  shop  international 

2.78 

1.358 

products with discounts. 

Overall Average 

2.85 

0.75 

Table 10 shows actual responses range from 1 to 5 scale; (1) indicates strongly agree, 

(2)  indicates  agree,  (3)  indicates  neutral,  (4)  indicates  disagree  and  (5)  indicates 

strongly disagree. The mean response of respondents on online shopping ranges from 

2.47 to 3.14. Among them, the most significant observations of the respondents were 

found on "Shopping on Internet is cheaper than going to the store.”  with the highest 

mean value of 3.14 where the least mean 2.47 was observed on “ The delivery of the 

product and services are on time. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11 

Descriptive Statistics of Online Shoppers Action 

Codes  Statements 

43 

Mean  Std. 

Deviation 

OS16 

I have a positive attitude towards online shopping. 

2.51 

0.772 

OS17  Online Shopping is more popular nowadays so, I prefer 

2.35 

0.857 

online shopping.  

OS18 

Promotions on home page would provide me with a good 

2.56 

0.795 

deal in my online shopping.  

OS19  Online  Shopping  would  provide  me  with  a  timely 

2.47 

0.881 

response to my request.   

0S20 

Online Shopping helps me get which product I want. 

2.86 

1.025 

Overall Average 

2.55 

0.86 

Table 11 shows actual responses range from 1 to 5 scale; (1) indicates strongly agree, 

(2) indicates agree, (3) indicates neutral (4) indicates disagree and (5) indicates strongly 

disagree. The  mean response of respondents on Online shoppers action  ranges from 

2.35 to 2.86. Among them, “Online Shopping is  more popular nowadays so, I prefer 

online shopping.” with the highest mean value of 2.35 where the highest  mean 2.86 

observation was on “Online Shopping helps me get which product I want. 

Table 12 

Descriptive Analysis of Study of Variables 

Codes 

Variables 

Mean  Std. Deviation 

C 

I 

A 

Convenience (Independent) 

2.74 

0.72 

Information (Independent) 

2.62 

0.95 

Availability (Independent) 

2.56 

0.95 

TC 

Time and Cost (Independent) 

2.85 

0.75 

OS 

Online Shoppers Action (Dependent) 

2.55 

0.86 

 
 
 
 
44 

Table  12  shows  that  all  the  independent  variables;  convenience,  information, 

availability, time and cost have mean value above 2.5. It indicates that the factors of 

online shopping are agreed by all respondents. Among them availability mostly agreed 

by all respondents with the mean value 2.56. In addition, convenience was also agreed 

by majority of respondents with the mean value 2.74. Similarly, dependent variable; 

online shopping has mean value 2.55 indicates online shopping behavior influence the 

consumer to shop online. 

Correlation Analysis 

Correlation analysis is a kind of inferential statistical analysis that is used to measure 

existence of significant association between variables (Coopers and Schindler, 2003). 

Correlation coefficient is used to describe and quantify the relationship between two 

variables. 

Table 13 

Correlation Matrix 

Online 

Shoppers 

1 

.638** 

.659** 

.557** 

Online Shoppers 

Information 

Availability 

Time and Cost 

Information  Availability 

and 

Convenience  

Time 

Cost 

. 

. 

1 

.621** 

1 

1 

.780** 

.488** 

Convenience 

.621** 

.788** 

.488** 

.557** 

1 

**. Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed). 

Table  13  demonstrates  the  Pearson’s  correlation  coefficients  between  the  studied 

variables.  The table shows that there was moderate correlation between information 

and  online  shoppers  action  as  their  correlation  was  (r  =0.638)  which  is  more  than 

(r>0.3). Correlation between availability was found to be moderate as their correlation 

was  (r  =  0.659).  Time  and  Cost  was  found  to  have  moderate  correlation  as  their 

correlation was (r = 0.557). Correlation between convenience was found to be strong 

as their correlation was (r = 0.621).  Similarly, there was moderate correlation between 

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
45 

information  and  availability  that  is  the  correlation  was  (r  =  0.780).  There  exists 

moderate  correlation  between  after  information  and  time  and  cost  were  (r  =0.488) 

respectively. 

In the similar way, availability, and time and cost was found to have strong correlation 

as their correlation was (r =0.621). In addition, there exist moderate correlation between 

convenience and time and cost as their correlation were (r = 0.557) respectively.  

Regression Analysis 

Regression analysis is a method used to examine the relationship between a dependent 

variable and one or more independent variables. It is a powerful tool that allows for the 

examination  of  multiple  variables  and  the  creation  of  predictive  models.  While 

correlation analysis can determine if there is a relationship between two variables, it 

cannot provide information about the nature or strength of that relationship. Regression 

analysis is useful  in this case, as  it can provide  more detailed  information about the 

association between the variables, such as the strength and direction of the relationship, 

and  how  changes  in  the  independent  variable  impact  the  dependent  variable.  It  also 

allows for the prediction of the dependent variable based on the independent variable. 

Regression analysis is employed to estimate outcomes and comprehend the correlation 

between  variables.  Relapse  examination  was  used  in  this  review  to  assess  the 

speculation. The autonomous factors that decide the result's changeability are recorded 

in this part, alongside the extent of the reliant variable's fluctuation that is made sense 

of by the free factors and the factors that are huge (in connection to different factors) in 

making sense of the reliant variable's changeability. To decide the connection between 

the  dependent  variable  (Online  Shoppers)  and  autonomous  variables  (Information, 

Availability, Time and Cost and Convenience), direct relapse investigation was done 

as a result of  its convenience, simplicity of understanding,  logical acknowledgment, 

and general accessibility, straight relapse is more suitable. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14  

Model Summary of Regression Analysis 

46 

Std. Error of the 

Model 

R 

R Square 

Adjusted R Square 

Estimate 

1 

.472a 

.223 

.215 

.71080 

Table  14  presents  a  summary  of  the  correlation  coefficient  (R)  and  coefficient  of 

determination (R2) between the dependent and independent variables. The correlation 

coefficient  between  the  dependent  variable  and  all  independent  variables  is  0.472, 

which indicates a positive correlation between the dependent and independent variables 

as a whole. 

The coefficient of determination, or R2, is also known as the coefficient of assurance. 

It is a measurement that estimates how closely the data follows the regression line. The 

R2 value represents the proportion of the variation in the dependent variable that can 

be  explained  by  the  independent  variable(s)  in  the  model.  A  value  of  R2  should  be 

between 0 and 100 percent, with a higher value indicating a better fit of the model to 

the data. In this case, the R2 of 0.223 indicates that the institutional variable accounts 

for 22.3% of the variation of online shoppers. 

Table 15 

ANOVA Table of Dependent and Independent Variable 

Sum of 
Squares 

df  Mean Square 

F 

Sig. 

1 

Regression 

55.563 

Residual 

193.506 

Total 

249.069 

4 

399 

387 

a. Dependent Variable: Online Shoppers 

13.891 

27.494 

.000b 

.505 

 b. Predictors: (Constant), Information, Availability, Time and Cost and 
Convenience 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
47 

According to ANOVA table 15, there is a lot of evidence to conclude that the model is 

effective and, therefore, significant at F = 27.494, p = 0.000, as the significance level 

of 0.000 is lower than that of 0.05. Thus, the online  shoppers and its factor affecting 

variables have a significant linear relationship. 

Table 16 

Coefficient Table of Dependent and Independent Variable 

Model 

(Constant) 

Information 

Availability 

Time and Cost 

 Convenience 

Unstandardized 
Coefficients 

Standardized 
Coefficients 

Std. 
Error 

B 

Beta 

t 

Sig. 

1.572 

.208 

7.545 

.000 

.023 

.053 

.027 

.427 

.670 

.260 

.061 

.274 

4.296 

.000 

.195 

.068 

.156 

2.887 

.004 

.110 

.051 

.123 

2.166 

.031 

Table 16 displays the results of the regression analysis for the relationship between the 

independent and dependent variables. By  looking at the coefficient value and the p-

value, it can be determined that the slope is positive. A significant association between 

the independent and dependent variables is indicated when the p-value is less than 0.05. 

In this case, the p-value of the independent variable  information is  greater than 0.05, 

which suggests that there is no significant impact of  information on online shoppers. 

On the other hand, the p-value of availability, time and cost and convenience  is less 

than 0.05, indicating that there is a significant impact of availability, time and cost and 

convenience on online shoppers. 

4.1.3 Major Finding of the Study 

  The age level of the respondents is as shown out of total 73.5percent fall in to the 

age group of 20-40, 18 percent fall under 20 age group, 7.5percent from 40-60 

age group and remaining one percent from above 60 age group. 

  Out of total respondents, male respondents are 55 percent and female respondents 

are 45 percent. 

 
 
 
48 

  Out of total respondents, 30% have completed Bachelors, 15.5% have completed 

Intermediate,  39.5%  have  completed  masters  and  remaining  13.5%  have 

completed SLC. 

  Out of total respondents, 51.5% earn 10000-20000 per month, 8.5% earn 20000-

30000 per month, 26.5% earn less than 10000 and remaining 13% earn more than 

30000. 

  Out  of  total  respondents,  12.5%  own  a  business,  3.5%  work  as  a  government 

employee, 55% are private employee and 29% are students. 

  Regarding  on  the  descriptive  analysis  of  online  shopper’s  action,  five  general 

questions were asked to all respondents those who buy the product through online 

shoppers.  Among  the  total  respondents  surveyed,  “Online  Shopping  is  more 

popular nowadays so, I prefer online shopping.” with the highest mean value of 

2.35 where the highest mean 2.86 observation was on “Online  Shopping helps 

me get which product I want. 

  Regarding  on  the  descriptive  analysis  of  convenience,  four  general  questions 

were  asked  to  all  respondents  i.e.  online  shoppers.  Among  them,  the  most 

significant observations of the respondents were found on " Online shopping is 

risky."  with  the  highest  mean  value  of  3.32  where  the  least  mean  2.44  was 

observed on “It is a great advantage to be able to shop at any time of the day.” 

  Regarding on the descriptive analysis of information, four general questions were 

asked to all shoppers those who buy the product through online. Among them, 

the  most  significant  observations  of  the  respondents  were  found  on  "The 

information provided on online store are accurate." with the highest mean value 

of 2.68 where the least mean 2.48 was observed on “I find the information on the 

shopping site to be well-organized.” 

  Regarding on the descriptive analysis of availability, three general questions were 

asked to all shoppers those who buy the product through online. Among them, 

the most significant observations of the respondents were found on "My problem 

is resolved efficiently.” with the highest mean value of 2.64 where the least mean 

2.44 was observed on “Both local and international products are available to shop 

online.” 

  Regarding  on  the  descriptive  analysis  of  time  and  cost,  four  general  questions 

were asked to all  shoppers those who buy the product through online. Among 

 
 
49 

them,  the  most  significant  observations  of  the  respondents  were  found  on 

"Shopping on Internet is cheaper than going to the store.” with the highest mean 

value of 3.14 where the least mean 2.47 was observed on “ The delivery of the 

product and services are on time.” 

  Descriptive  analysis  of  independent  and  dependent  variables  shows  that  each 

construct of variables was important. All the variables have mean value above 

2.5,  which  indicates  that  all  shoppers  have  positive  attitudes  towards  online 

shopping. Among independent variables, time and cost had highest mean value 

2.85 and availability had  lowest  mean value 2.5. It indicates that convenience, 

availability,  information,  time  and  cost  are  crucial  factors  towards  online 

shopper’s action. 

  Regarding  the  correlation  between  different  variables,  there  was  strong 

correlation between online shopper’s action and availability as their correlation 

was 0.659 which is more than 0.60. There exists strong correlation between online 

shopper’s action and information, moderate correlation between online shopper’s 

action and time and cost, strong correlation between online shopper’s action and 

convenience as their correlation was 0.638, 0.557 and 0.621 respectively. 

4.2 Discussion 

To  meet  the  objectives  of  the  research,  researcher  distributed  questionnaire  to  the 

consumers  of  Kathmandu  Valley  on  the  topic,  ‘Factors  Influencing  Online  Buying 

Behaviour of Consumers in Kathmandu  Valley’ through online platform. Data were 

interpreted by using SPSS software. Data findings are discussed below: 

The primary objective of the current study was to find out influencing factors of online 

buying  behaviour  of  consumers  inside  Kathmandu  valley.  Descriptive  analysis  of 

independent  and  dependent  variables  shows  that  each  construct  of  variables  was 

important.  All  the  variables  have  mean  value  above  2.5,  which  indicates  that  all 

shoppers  have  positive  attitudes  towards  online  shopping.  Among  independent 

variables, time and cost had highest mean value 2.85 and availability had lowest mean 

value  2.5.  It  indicates  that  convenience,  availability,  information,  time  and  cost  are 

crucial factors towards online shopper’s action. 

 
 
 
50 

It is found that there was strong correlation between online shoppers and information, 

and  convenience  which  is  more  than  0.60.  There  exists  strong  correlation  between 

online shoppers and availability and time and cost, moderate correlation between online 

shoppers and time and cost. Future researchers can study a different set of population 

or  look  at  the  different  set  of  variables.  Future  researchers  can  do  experimental 

research. 

The study aims to investigate the factors that influencing online buying behavior of 

consumers in Kathmandu valley. The study also aims to identify the significant impact 

of information, availability, time and cost and convenience  on online shoppers. The 

study examines the information, availability, time and cost and convenience within the 

context of shoppers doing the online shopping in the Kathmandu valley. 

There is no significant impact of information of the consumers doing shopping online 

in  Kathmandu  valley  but  the  empirical  evidence  of  this  study  found  that  perceived 

online attachment had significant impact on online shoppers which contradicts with the 

study conducted by Daroch et al. (2020) and Qazzafi (2020).  

The results of this study confirm by showing a strong influence of an availability on 

the online shoppers. It suggests that  in order to  maintain the relationship with other 

users one continue to have the online shopping. The current result of the study supports 

the findings Wang (2021) and Thang et al. (2022). 

Time and cost has a notable effect on how shoppers do online shopping. The research 

findings also indicate that time and cost plays a significant role in online shopping. The 

results align with previous studies conducted by Sinha and Kim (2012), Shakya (2014) 

and  Shrestha  (2018),  which  all  suggest  that  individuals  with  a  stronger  inclination 

towards time and cost tend to be more willing to share their knowledge online. 

There is a significant impact of convenience of consumers in the online buying. The 

empirical evidence of this study also found that convenience has a strong influence or 

significant  impact  on  online  shoppers.  The  current  results  of  the  study  support  the 

findings of Osman et al. (2015) and Shah and Tendon (2020). 

 
 
 
 
 
51 

CHAPTER V  

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION

This chapter presents the summary of the entire study and highlights the major findings 

of the study. Furthermore, the major conclusions are discussed in separate section of 

this  chapter  which  is  followed  by  some  implications  and  the  recommendations 

regarding the factors influencing online shoppers action. This chapter emphasizes at 

the dialogue and the interpretation of the research outcomes. Except all that this chapter 

provides an interpretation of information that generated from the essential findings and 

comes  at  certain  conclusion.  Finally,  the  chapter  ends  with  the  scope  of  the  future 

research in the same field. 

5.1. Summary 

Different  domestic  and  international  companies  have  facilitated  online  shopping  in 

Kathmandu  valley.  Their  names 

include  Daraz,  Muncha,  Pathao,  Sastodeal, 

Foodmandu, Flipkart, Braz Beauty etc. These companies provide products like clothes, 

cosmetics,  electronic  items,  groceries,  books  and  appearels  also  services  related  to 

beauty parlour, salon at home, person pick up and so on pushing digital development.  

Ride-sharing  applications  such  as  Tootle  and  Pathao;  payment  platforms  such  as 

eSewa,  IMEpay,  and  Khalti;  or  websites  such  as  Daraz  and  Muncha  have  already 

shown the potential of e-commerce as an alternative tool to drive local business.  

The  payments  can  be  shipping  or  when  the  products  are  delivered  through  cash  or 

online  payment  like  esewa,  IME  Pay,  online  banking  transfer  through  user  bank 

accounts as per the desired view of users. Many users are attracted to online shopping 

and using online services. Many online portals and shopping portals are launched. The 

competition  is  rapidly  increasing  day-by-day  due  to  an  increasing  number  of  online 

stores  in  Nepal,  which  will  ultimately  benefit  the  future  of  e-commerce  in  Nepal. 

Similarly,  the  Nepalese  entrepreneurs  have  also  enhanced  another  aspect  of  online 

shopping by increasing the trend of using social media as a shopping platform. 

The major objectives were to find out the factors impacting the online shoppers action 

of consumers and to analyse the factors such as age, gender, education, income level 

 
 
 
 
52 

and profession. To achieve the objectives of this study descriptive, explanatory design 

has been used. 

Primary data (qualitative and quantitative) were collected through questionnaire which 

were sent to respondents using social media platform specially  Facebook messenger 

and Viber. Follow up messages and  phone calls were made after two/three weeks to 

stress the significance of their responses.  

Total population for the research was the persons who have shopped online. For the 

study  total  500  questionnaires  were  sent  directly  and  indirectly  (forwarded  through 

friends  and  relatives)  and  only  400  responses  were  collected.  Respondents  were 

provided  with  5  point  Likert  scale  questionnaire  (ranging,  1  to  5)  to  provide  their 

responses or perception on the topic whereas actual responses range from 1 to 5 scale; 

(1)  indicates  strongly  agree,  (2)  indicates  agree,  (3)  indicates  neutral  (4)  indicates 

disagree and (5) indicates strongly disagree. 

Analysis of data is the most important and critical phase for study. Different tools were 

used to analyze the data by the researcher to draw meaningful conclusion. In this study 

IBM SPSS  Statistics  V28 (Statistical Package), Microsoft Excel and Microsoft word 

were used to analyze the data. With the help of these tools, few statistical techniques 

such as mean, standard deviation, correlation were calculated. 

5.2. Conclusion 

The findings of the study show that male of Kathmandu valley, age between 20-40, 

students who were having bachelor degree and income level of 10000-20000 are keen 

to shop online. 

After  the  completion  of  the  study,  it  is  found  out  that  convenience,  information, 

availability,  time  and  cost  are  the  factors  that  influence  online  shoppers  action  of 

consumers inside Kathmandu Valley. Among independent variables, time and cost and 

availability  are  the  major  option  which  shoppers  goes  for  online  shopping  in 

accordance to the respondents taken for the research. 

It  is  found  that  there  was  strong  correlation  between  online  shoppers  action  and 

availability.  Consistent  product  availability  is  the  essence  that  makes  your  business 

 
 
53 

successful since it provides the structure and attracts the target market by providing the 

product  to  fulfill  the  needs.  The  product  availability,  after  sales  service,  warranty, 

guarantee  of  the  product  or  service  must  be  mentioned  clearly  so  that  the  online 

businesses  get  good  reviews.  Not  only  that  this  service  helps  them  get  good 

recommendations. 

There exists strong correlation between online shoppers action and information. Wrong 

information  may  lead  to  false  behaviour  and  comments  which  may  lead  to  loss  in 

business. The  scarcity and lack of knowledge of the product and of the information 

related to the online sellers could be disastrous. The Information about the seller and 

its  products  and  brands  is  very  important  in  order  to  be  able  to  attract  and  retain 

consumers. 

There exists moderate correlation between online shopper’s action and time and cost. 

Cost  and  Time-saving  is  the another  option  that  shoppers  goes  for  online  shopping. 

Consumers  like  to  shop  online  because  all  they  want  is  to  save  the  time  to  select, 

analyze and pay that they have to do in the store.  

There  exists  strong  correlation  between  online  shoppers  action  and  convenience 

respectively.  Hence,  cconvenience  is  the  next  essential  of  customer  experience  that 

saves customer time and effort. Shopping online offers the convenience of purchasing 

items where and where it suits, via payment method of our choice while having the 

item delivered.  

Hence, considered safer, cost and time saving, information and availability,  shoppers 

are turning to online  shopping to buy products like foods, clothing  items, electronic 

items.  In  the  light  of  the  current  research  findings  and  conclusions,  the  study 

recommends that companies need to have a better understanding of  online shoppers 

action on the Internet in Nepal. They may conduct in-depth market research, focusing 

on how Nepalese view online buying behavior, and how they can be encouraged to 

make a better and more effective use of this new buying technology.  Availability in 

business  matches the present and future needs of the business Consumers  should be 

made well aware of the right quality, quantity, cost, use of available goods and services. 

Appropriate information of products and services in online websites and applications 

help  the  customer  for  the  right  use  of  products  and  services.  It  is  necessary  for the 

 
 
54 

business to keep updated information. Consumers shop online as they want to save the 

time and cost of selecting the product and going from the stores. Regarding the cost of 

the product, it should be moderate to the buyer. 

5.3. Implications 

The  implications  of  the  study  on  "Factors  Impacting  Online  Shoppers  Action  in 

Kathmandu Valley" can provide valuable insights for various stakeholders, including 

businesses, policymakers, and researchers. Here are some key implications: 

  E-Commerce Businesses and Retailers: The study can help e-commerce businesses 

and retailers operating in Kathmandu Valley understand the factors that drive online 

shoppers action. By identifying the most influential factors, businesses can tailor 

their  marketing  strategies,  website  design,  and  customer  service  to  meet  the 

preferences and needs of consumers. For instance, if convenience and ease of use 

are major drivers, businesses may invest in user-friendly websites and mobile apps. 

  Product and Service Offerings: Insights gained from the study can aid businesses 

in determining which products and services are more likely to be purchased online. 

By understanding consumer preferences, companies can optimize their inventory, 

focus  on  popular  products,  and  diversify  their  offerings  to  attract  more  online 

shoppers. 

  Marketing and Advertising Strategies: The study can inform businesses about the 

most  effective  marketing  channels  and  messages  to  target  online  shoppers  in 

Kathmandu  Valley.  This  could  include  using  social  media,  email  campaigns, 

influencers, or search engine optimization to reach and engage the target audience 

effectively. 

  Payment and Delivery Methods: Understanding the preferred payment methods and 

delivery  options  can  help  businesses  streamline  their  processes  and  offer  more 

suitable options to consumers. If a significant portion of consumers prefer cash-on-

delivery over digital payment, for instance, businesses may need to accommodate 

this preference to encourage more online purchases. 

  Policy and Regulations: The findings of the study can be valuable for policymakers 

in Nepal. It can help them better understand the dynamics of e-commerce within 

the Kathmandu Valley and make informed decisions about regulations, consumer 

 
 
55 

protection laws, and infrastructure development to support the growth of the digital 

economy. 

  Consumer  Education:  The  study  can  highlight  areas  where  consumers  may  lack 

awareness  or  understanding  of  online  shopping  practices.  Businesses  and 

authorities can work together to provide educational resources and initiatives that 

address concerns about online security, privacy, and reliable sources. 

  Digital  Device  and  Accessibility:  If  certain  factors  influencing  online  shoppers 

action are related to internet access or technology availability, the study can draw 

attention to the digital divide within Kathmandu Valley. Policymakers can use this 

information  to  implement  initiatives  that  bridge  the  gap  and  improve  internet 

infrastructure and accessibility for all residents. 

  Future  Research:  The  study  can  also  open  up  new  avenues  for  further  research. 

Researchers can delve deeper into specific factors, conduct longitudinal studies to 

track changes over time, or explore differences in  online shopper’s action across 

different demographic groups within the Kathmandu Valley. 

In conclusion, the implications of this study can offer valuable guidance to businesses, 

policymakers,  and  researchers  seeking  to  understand  and  optimize  online  shoppers 

action within Kathmandu Valley. By taking these insights  into account, stakeholders 

can make informed decisions that foster a thriving e-commerce ecosystem in the region. 

 
 
REFERENCES 

Al-Maghrabi,  T.,  Dennis,  C.,  &  Halliday,  S.  V.  (2011).  Antecedents  of  continuance 

intention  to  shop  online:  Empirical  study  of  Saudi  Arabia.  Journal  of  Computer 

Information Systems, 52(4), 22-31. 

Baabdullah,  J.,  Kakalejcik,  L.  &  Ferencova,  M.  (2020).  Online  Shopping:  Factors  that 

affect purchasing Behaviour: Cogent Business & Management, 9(2), 56-60.  

Bhattarai,  M.  (2018).  The  Factors  Influencing  Online  Shopping  Behavior  Among 

Consumers in Kathmandu Valley. The Journal of Nepalese Studies, 10(2), 48-52.  

Bucko,  B,  Dolip  L.  &  Watner  K.  (2018)  Online  shopping:  factors  that  affect consumer 

purchasing behavior. International Business Management Learning, 1 (2), 9-13. 

Chitrakar B. (2018).  Online Shopping: Consumer Behaviour and Competitor Analysis in 

Nepal. International Management Learning. 13(4), 67-69. 

Da  Silva,  J.  (2017).  Descriptive  research  design:  Theory  and  application.  Journal  of 

Applied Research Design, 3(1), 45-58. 

Daroch, B., Nagrath, G. & Gupta, A. (2020).  A Study on factors limiting online   shopping 

behaviour of consumers. Emerald Group Publishing, 15(1), 99-105. 

Doriyat, G. (2018). Understanding Online Shopping Behavior in Context of Social Media. 

The Journal of Nepalese Studies, 3(2), 12-15. 

Gajurel, A. (2022). The Factors Affecting the Online Shopping Behavior of Consumers in 

Various Countries, Including  Vietnam, Pakistan, Malaysia, India, and Nepal.  The 

Journal of Nepalese Studies, 12(1), 44-48. 

Gaudel, M. (2019). Consumers’ Attitude Towards Online  Shopping: Factors Influencing 

Nepali Consumers to Shop Online. Procedia Economics and Finance. 8 (3), 123-

125.  

Ha, S., & Stoel, L. (2009). Consumer e-shopping acceptance: Antecedents in a technology 

acceptance model. Journal of Business Research, 62(5), 565-571. 

Hamzah, U. (2019). The Role Online Shopping Behavior on the Local Product of Saudi-

Arabia. Journal of Management Research and Analysis, 4(5), 20-23. 

Hussain, A., Baabdullah, A., Thapa, R., & Sharma, N. (2021). Factors influencing online 

shopping behavior: A study in Nepal. Journal of Consumer Behavior, 15(3), 19-25. 

DOI: 10.1002/cb.1821 

Jarvenpaa, S. L., & Todd, P. A. (1997). Consumer reactions to electronic shopping on the 

world wide web. International Journal of Electronic Commerce, 1(2), 59-88. 

 
 
 
 
Johnson,  K.  (2020).  Factors  Affecting  the  Online  Purchase  Intentions:  A  Study  of 

Generation Z  in the  United  State.  International Business Management Learning, 

3(2), 25-28. 

Kim, C. (2021). An Examination of the Relationship between Online Method of Buying 

and Consumer Buying Intention. International Journal of Applied Research. 4(5), 

46-49. 

Koirala,  K  D.  (2021).  1st  Edition.   Consumer  Behaviour.  Kathmandu,  Nepal:  Samjhana 

Publication Pvt. Ltd. 

Kundu,  G.  (2015).  Factors  Influencing  the  Online  Shopping  Behavior  of  Consumers  in 

India, Journal of Management Research and Analysis, 3(4), 23-29. 

Lerner, M. P. (2015).  The concept of health in One Health and some practical implications 

for  research  and  education:  what  is  One  Health?  International  Business 

Management Learning, 2 (2), 31-52. 

Liao, Q. (2023). Factors influencing  individuals' online shopping behavior: A systematic 

review. Journal of Consumer Behavior, 14(3), 274-289. 

Martz, K. (2021). Online vs. Offline Shopping, Impact of COVID-19 on the Digitalization 

Process in Austria. International Business Management Learning, 2 (2), 31-52. 

McKinsey,  W.  (2019).  Factors  Affecting  Online  Shopper  Behaviour  in  Malaysia.  The 

Frontiers of Society, Science and Technology, 3(5), 24-33. 

Parasuraman,  P.W.  (1985).  The  Effects  of  Consumers’  Online  Shopping  Goals  and 

their   characteristics on Perceived Interactivity and Shopping Behaviours. Journal 

of Consumer Research. 4(3), 45-47.  

Rungsriswat,  S.,  Joemsittiprasert,  W.  &  Jermsittiparsert  J.   (2019).  Factors  determining 

consumer  buying  behaviour  in  online  shopping:  International  Journal  of 

Innovation, Creativity and Change, 8(8), 89-94.  

Sah,  A.  (2023).  Factors  affecting  online  shopping  behaviour  of  boutique  products  in 

Kathmandu Valley. Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, 67, 82. 

Sahin,  J.  (2011).   Factors  affecting  Indian  Consumers’  Online  Buying  Behaviour. 

Innovative Marketing. 8(2), 43-46. 

Schiffman, L. G., & Kanuk, L. L. (2010).  Consumer behavior. Upper Saddle River, NJ: 

Pearson Education. 

Shah,  F.A.  &   Tandon,  V. (2020). Consciousness of  Online  Shopping Consumer Buyer 

Behaviour: International Journal of Research and Review, 7(3), 76-79. 

 
 
 
 
Shrestha,  S.  (2019).  Consumer  Buying  Behavior  Among  the  Youths  of  the  Kathmandu 

Valley. The Journal of Nepalese Studies, 7(2), 45-50. 

Solomon, S. K. (2021). Customer Impulse Buying Behaviour in Kathmandu. The Journal 

of Nepalese Studies, 11(1), 154-168. 

Thakur, C., Diwekar, A., Reddy, B. J.   & Gajjala, N.  (2020). A Study of the online impulse 

buying  behaviour  during  COVID-19.  International  Journal  of  Research  in 

Engineering, Science and Management, 3(9), 24-28. 

Thang,  G.,  Guhan,  L.  Mirak,  N.  &  Ghenam  M.  (2022).  Factors  Influencing  Online 

Shopping  Intention:  An  Empirical  Study  in  Vietnam.  Cogent  Business  & 

Management, 5(1), 45-49. 

Thapa, H. A., & Sharma, T. H.  (2020).  Factors Influencing Online shopping intention: An 

Empirical Study in Vietnam. Journal of Asian Finance, Economics and Business, 

8(3), 1257–1266. 

Uddin, B. (2020). Factors affecting consumers’ Internet Shopping Behaviour during the 

COVID-19 in Bangladesh.: Chinese Business Review,19(3), 91-104. 

Vaidya, R. (2019). Online Shopping in Nepal: Preferences and Problems: The Journal of 

Nepalese Studies, 12(1), 17-19. 

Wang  C.  (2021).  Factors  Affecting  Online  Shopping  Behavior  in  Malaysia.  Chinese 

Business Review,9(13), 101-114. 

Wolfinbarger, M., & Gilly, M. C. (2001). Shopping online for freedom, control, and fun. 

California Management Review, 43(2), 34-55. 

Zeithaml,  B.  &   Bitner,  G.  (2003).   E-commerce  factors  influencing  consumers’  online 

shopping decision. Social Technologies, 5(1), 74-81. 

Zhou,  C.   (2020).  Online  Shopper  Behaviour:  Influences  of  Online  Shopping  Decision. 

Asian Journal of Business Research. 1(2), 84-89.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDICES  

ANNEX I 

QUESTIONNAIRE  

Dear respondents, 

I  am  Sabina  Bhandari.  Currently  I  am  pursuing  Master  of  Business  Studies  (MBS)  in 

Shanker Dev Campus; Tribhuvan University with marketing as a major.. This questionnaire 

is a part of my thesis and based on a title “Factors Impacting Online Shoppers Action in 

Kathmandu Valley”. The survey is carried out only for academic purpose. The information 

given will be confidential and used in this study only. 

Thank you in advance for your cooperation. 

E - Mail: ___________________________________________________________ 

Name: ___________________________________________________________ 

1.  Age: 

  Below 20 

  20-40 

  40-60 

  Above 60 

2.  Gender: 

  Female 

  Male 

3.  Education: 

  SLC 

 

Intermediate 

  Bachelor 

  Master level or above 

4.  Income: 

  Less than 10000 

  10000-20000 

  20000-30000 

  More than 30000 

 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Occupation of the respondents: 

  Business 

  Government Employee 

  Private Employee 

  Student 

The following Statements are measured in a Likert scale of 1 to 5. Please give a rating on 

your online shopping experience. 

C1: It is a great advantage to be able to shop at any time of the day. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

C2: Online shopping is as secure as traditional shopping. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

C3: Online shopping is risky. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C4: Based on my past experience, I believe that the transaction through the online store 

is safe and reliable. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

I5: The information provided on online store are clear. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

I6: The information provided on online store are accurate. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

I7: In the online store, I find the information to be logically presented. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

I8: I find the information on the shopping site to be well-organized. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

A9: The customer service representative is available to talk with me. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

A10: My problem is resolved efficiently. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

A11: Both local and international products are available to shop online. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

TC12: The delivery of the product and services are on time. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

TC13: Shopping on Internet is cheaper than going to the store. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

TC14: The delivery fees are high. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

TC15: We have an advantage to shop international products with discounts. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

OS16: I have a positive attitude towards online shopping. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

0S17: Online Shopping is more popular nowadays so, I prefer online shopping. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

OS18: Promotions on home page would provide me with a good deal in my online  

shopping. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

 
 
 
 
3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

OS19: Online Shopping would provide me with a timely response to my request. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

OS20: Online Shopping helps me get which product I want. 

1. Strongly Agree 

2. Agree 

3. Neutral 

4. Disagree 

5. Strongly Disagree 

THANK YOU ! 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Age of the Respondents 

ANNEX – II 

Age Group 

Frequency 

Percentage 

Cumulative Percentage 

Below 20 

20-40 

40-60 

Above 60 

Total 

72 

294 

30 

4 

400 

Gender of the Respondents 

18 

91.5 

99 

100 

18 

73.5 

7.5 

1 

100 

Gender 

Female 

Male 

Total 

Frequency 

Percentage 

Cumulative Percentage 

180 

220 

400 

45 

100 

45 

55 

100 

Education of the Respondents 

Education 

Frequency 

Percentage 

Cumulative Percentage 

SLC 

Intermediate 

Bachelor 

54 

62 

120 

Master or above 

158 

Total 

400 

13.5 

29 

59 

100 

13.5 

15.5 

30 

41 

100 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monthly Income of the respondents 

Monthly Income 

Frequency 

Percentage 

Cumulative Percentage 

Less than 10000 

106 

10000-20000 

20000-30000 

206 

34 

More than 30000 

52 

Total 

400 

26.5 

78 

86.5 

100 

26.5 

51.5 

8.5 

13.5 

100 

Occupation of the respondents 

Occupation 

Frequency 

Percentage 

Cumulative 

Percentage 

Business 

48 

12.5 

12.5 

Government Employee 

14 

Private Employee 

Student 

220 

116 

3.5 

55 

29 

16 

71 

100 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Descriptive Analysis of Convenience 

ANNEX III 

Codes 

Statements 

Mean 

Std. Deviation 

C1 

It is a great advantage to be able to shop at 

2.44 

1.4221 

any time of the day. 

C2 

Online  shopping  is  as  secure  as  traditional 

2.64 

1.028 

shopping. 

C3 

C4 

Online shopping is risky. 

3.32 

1.222 

Based on my past experience, I believe that 

2.53 

1.040 

the  transaction  through  the  online  store  is 

safe and reliable. 

Overall Average 

2.74 

0.72 

Descriptive Analysis of Information 

Codes 

Statements 

Mean 

Std. Deviation 

I5 

The information provided on online store are 

2.64 

1.105 

clear. 

I6 

The information provided on online store are 

2.68 

1.113 

accurate. 

I7 

In the online store, I find the information to 

2.63 

1.147 

be logically presented. 

I8 

I find the information on the shopping site to 

2.48 

1.154 

be well-organized. 

Overall Average 

2.62 

0.95 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Descriptive Analysis of Availability 

Codes 

Statements 

Mean 

Std. Deviation 

A9 

The  customer  service  representative  is 

2.58 

1.096 

available to talk with me. 

A10 

My problem is resolved efficiently. 

2.64 

1.146 

A11 

Both  local  and  international  products  are 

2.44 

1.319 

available to shop online. 

Overall Average 

2.56 

0.95 

Descriptive Analysis of Time and Cost 

Codes 

Statements 

Mean 

Std. Deviation 

TC12 

The delivery of the product and services are 

2.47 

1.149 

on time. 

TC13 

Shopping on Internet is cheaper than going 

3.14 

1.155 

to the store. 

TC14 

The delivery fees are high. 

2.97 

1.180 

TC15  We have an advantage to shop international 

2.78 

1.358 

products with discounts. 

Overall Average 

2.85 

0.75 

Descriptive Statistics of Online Shoppers Action 

Codes 

Statements 

Mean  Std. Deviation 

OS16 

I  have  a  positive  attitude  towards  online 
shopping. 

2.51 

0.772 

OS17  Online Shopping is more popular nowadays 

2.35 

0.857 

so, I prefer online shopping.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
OS18 

Promotions on home page would provide me 
with a good deal in my online shopping.  

2.56 

0.795 

OS19  Online  Shopping would provide  me with a 
timely response to my request.   

2.47 

0.881 

0S20 

Online  Shopping  helps  me  get  which 
product I want. 

2.86 

1.025 

Overall Average 

2.55 

0.86 

Descriptive Analysis of Study of Variables 

Codes 

Variables 

Mean  Std. Deviation 

C 

I 

A 

Convenience (Independent) 

2.74 

0.72 

Information (Independent) 

2.62 

0.95 

Availability (Independent) 

2.56 

0.95 

TC 

Time and Cost (Independent) 

2.85 

0.75 

OS 

Online Shoppers Action (Dependent) 

2.55 

0.86 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Correlation Matrix 

ANNEX IV 

Online 

Shoppers 

1 

.638** 

.659** 

.557** 

Online Shoppers 

Information 

Availability 

Time and Cost 

Information  Availability 

and 

Convenience  

Time 

Cost 

. 

. 

1 

.621** 

1 

1 

.780** 

.488** 

Convenience 

.621** 

.788** 

.488** 

.557** 

1 

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
6/27/24, 9:52 AM

Summary Report

Factors Impacting Online Shopper's Action in Ka...
By: Sabina Bhandari

As of: May 29, 2024 8:55:23 AM
16,063 words - 77 matches - 21 sources

Similarity Index

19%

Mode:  Summary Report

sources:

155 words / 1% - Internet from 15-Oct-2022 12:00AM
www.researchgate.net

111 words / 1% - Internet from 14-Feb-2023 12:00AM
www.researchgate.net

69 words / 1% - Internet from 03-Sep-2020 12:00AM
www.researchgate.net

204 words / 1% - Crossref
Aulia Agung Dermawan, Harmein Nasution, Muhammad Haikal Sitepu. "The impact of branding on purchasing decision-
making in mall shopping and online shopping", IOP Conference Series: Materials Science and Engineering, 2020

170 words / 1% - from 27-Feb-2024 12:00AM
elibrary.tucl.edu.np

170 words / 1% - Internet from 27-Oct-2019 12:00AM
www.tandfonline.com

156 words / 1% - Internet from 22-Aug-2020 12:00AM
ma adoc.com

152 words / 1% - Internet from 19-Jan-2021 12:00AM
www.journals.resaim.com

146 words / 1% - Internet from 26-Aug-2022 12:00AM
www.nepjol.info

125 words / 1% - Internet from 08-Oct-2022 12:00AM
www.aiirjournal.com

115 words / 1% - Internet from 10-Feb-2022 12:00AM
francis-press.com

115 words / 1% - Internet from 21-Aug-2020 12:00AM
www.ijicc.net

110 words / 1% - Internet from 13-Sep-2021 12:00AM
koreascience.or.kr

https://app.ithenticate.com/en_us/report/108756482/summary

1/25

