Available online at www.sciencedirect.com

Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544 – 564

www.elsevier.com/locate/dss

A trust-based consumer decision-making model in electronic
commerce: The role of trust, perceived risk,
and their antecedents

Dan J. Kim a,⁎

, Donald L. Ferrin b, H. Raghav Rao c

a Computer Information Systems, University of Houston Clear Lake, 2700 Bay Area Boulevard,
Delta 169, Houston, TX 77058-1098, United States
b Lee Kong Chian School of Business, Singapore Management University, Singapore
c Department of Management Science and Systems, State University of New York at Buffalo, United States

Received 1 November 2005; received in revised form 30 May 2007; accepted 1 July 2007
Available online 12 July 2007

Abstract

Are trust and risk important in consumers' electronic commerce purchasing decisions? What are the antecedents of trust and risk
in this context? How do trust and risk affect an Internet consumer's purchasing decision? To answer these questions, we i) develop
a theoretical framework describing the trust-based decision-making process a consumer uses when making a purchase from a given
site, ii) test the proposed model using a Structural Equation Modeling technique on Internet consumer purchasing behavior data
collected via a Web survey, and iii) consider the implications of the model. The results of the study show that Internet consumers'
trust and perceived risk have strong impacts on their purchasing decisions. Consumer disposition to trust, reputation, privacy
concerns, security concerns, the information quality of the Website, and the company's reputation, have strong effects on Internet
consumers' trust in the Website. Interestingly, the presence of a third-party seal did not strongly influence consumers' trust.
© 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Keywords: The role of trust; Electronic commerce; Antecedents of trust; Consumer trust; Perceived risk; Internet consumer behavior; Trusted third-
party seal; Privacy and security

1. Introduction

Despite the recent difficulties experienced by dot-com
companies, according to the Forrester report1, Business to

⁎ Corresponding author. Tel.: +1 281 283 3888.

E-mail addresses: kimdan@uhcl.edu (D.J. Kim), dferrin@smu.edu.sg

(D.L. Ferrin), mgmtrao@acsu.buffalo.edu (H.R. Rao).

1 Forrester, US e-business Overview: 2003–2008, July 25, 2003.

0167-9236/$ - see front matter © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.dss.2007.07.001

Consumer (B-to-C) Internet commerce enjoys a steady
growth rate (about 19% per year), and it is a familiar
mode of shopping for many consumers [1]. Many schol-
ars have argued that trust is a prerequisite for successful
to make
commerce because consumers are hesitant
the seller [62,77,82,135].
purchases unless they trust
Consumer
in
electronic, “cyber” transactions than it is in traditional,
“real world” transactions. This is because of some of the
characteristics of Internet cyber transactions — they are
blind, borderless, can occur 24 h a day and 7 days a week,

trust may be even more important

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

545

and are non-instantaneous (payment may occur days or
weeks before delivery is completed) — can cause
consumers to be concerned that the seller won't adhere
to its transactional obligations. Consequently, trust in an
Internet business is focused much more on transaction
processes [82], in contrast to that of traditional transac-
tions involving brick-and-mortar stores where trust tends
to be focused on face-to-face personal relationships. Quite
possibly, the key to success in Internet business is the
establishment of trusted transaction processes where e-
sellers create an environment in which a prospective
consumer can be relaxed and confident about any pro-
spective transactions [66]. Since trust is likely to play an
essential role in online transactions, it is important to
identify the antecedents of a consumer's trust in the
context of an Internet transaction.

In prior research,

[47,70], managerial/organizational

trust has been viewed through
diverse disciplinary lenses and filters: economic [43,65,
132], social/institutional [26,39,58], behavioral/psycho-
logical
[9,79,112,
125,135], and technological [23,27,96]. Trust is consid-
ered essential in exchange relations because it is a key
element of social capital [98] and is related to firm per-
formance, satisfaction, competitive advantage, and other
economic outcomes such as transaction cost [9,41,68] and
search cost reductions [67].

Because trust has been studied through these different
disciplinary lenses, previous research related to trust in
the e-commerce context tends to be disjointed, case-
specific, and/or loosely integrated. For example, most
studies on technological trust have focused narrowly on
issues of privacy, security, public key infrastructure, and
other technical aspects of trust [13,16,72,94]. Some recent
studies [64,82,115,117] have focused on the social and
behavioral elements of trust in an e-commerce context,
however these were again narrowly focused (e.g., they
focused on a limited number of trust antecedents, or
focused on trust in the community of sellers as a group),
and therefore researchers have not yet developed a
comprehensive understanding of the factors that predict
consumer trust in the e-commerce context. Given the
increasing prevalence of B-to-C Internet commerce,
there is an urgent need to analyze an online consumer's
decision-making process from a holistic standpoint which
can provide an understanding of the complex and dy-
namic phenomena of trust in online exchanges. Accord-
ingly, the specific research questions for the present study
are as follows: What are the roles of trust and risk in a
consumer's B-to-C online purchasing decision? Are they
critical in B-to-C online transactions? And what ante-
cedents can be identified that affect a consumer's trust and
risk toward a B-to-C online transaction?

Since research on trust has been conducted from a
variety of disciplinary perspectives, many definitions of
trust have evolved. Prior research on traditional com-
merce focused primarily on interpersonal trust such as a
customer's trust
in a salesperson. Plank et al. [120]
recognized that consumer trust could have multiple
referents — salesperson, product, and company — and
accordingly defined trust as a global belief on the part of
the buyer that the salesperson, product, and company will
their obligations as understood by the buyer.
fulfill
Similarly,
in the e-commerce context [7,11,15,24,42,
62,69,76,101,103,115,122,135], researchers have tended
to define describe trust as a subjective belief, a subjective
to be
probability,
vulnerable, reliance on parties other than oneself, or a
person's expectation. In our study, we will focus on the
trust that a consumer has in an Internet vendor. Logically,
this should include trust in the Website (e.g., www.
amazon.com), the Website brand, and the firm as a whole.
Accordingly, in this paper an online consumer's trust is
defined as a consumer's subjective belief that the selling
party or entity will fulfill its transactional obligations as
the consumer understands them.

the willingness of an individual

This paper provides several contributions. First, in
order to uncover the role of trust, risk and their anteced-
ents in B-to-C Internet commerce, this study develops a
holistic trust-based consumer decision model to describe
the decision-making process that a consumer uses when
making a purchase from a given site. Second, to the best
of our knowledge, most studies in the e-commerce
environment have collected data concerning a consumer's
successful purchasing experiences. Yet, because success-
ful cases represent only a fraction of all consumer trans-
action behaviors, these past studies may have painted an
incomplete picture (i.e., a biased view) of B-to-C
electronic commerce transactions. Accordingly, in the
present study we present a research design that enables us
to examine transaction experiences that resulted in non-
purchases in addition to completed purchases. In other
words, we collected data from both “successful” cases
and “unsuccessful” cases, and therefore can provide a
more complete picture of a consumer's B-to-C decision-
making process. Third, our testing of the proposed model
with the Partial Least Squares (PLS) Structural Equation
Modeling technique [48] provides empirical evidence that
trust, perceived risk, and perceived benefit are strong
determinants of a consumer's e-commerce transaction
decision. Finally,
the findings of this study provide
several insights which should help practitioners better
understand the role of trust and its antecedents in e-
commerce, and ultimately add trust-building mechanisms
into e-retailers' Websites.

546

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

This paper is organized as follows. The next section
presents the theoretical framework for the study along
with background theories that provide the foundation for
the framework. The section also proposes the extended
research model, referred to as a trust-based consumer
in e-commerce, with research
decision-making model
hypotheses. The third section describes the research
methodology and data collection. An analysis of results
follows in the fourth section. The final section provides a
discussion of the findings, and concludes with limitations
and implications of this study.

2. Conceptual development: the research model and
hypotheses

2.1. Basic theoretical model

Consumers often act on information that is less than
complete and far from perfect. As a result, they are
often faced with at
least some degree of risk or
uncertainty in their purchasing decisions. However, risk
is not the only factor consumers are sensitive to in the
context of an Internet purchase; the perceived benefit
provides consumers with an incentive for purchase
behavior [137]. Combining perceived risk and per-
ceived benefit, Tarpey and Peter [119] provided a
valence framework which assumes that consumers
perceive products as having both positive and negative
attributes, and accordingly consumers make decisions
to maximize the net valence resulting from the negative
and positive attributes of the decision. This framework
is consistent with Lewin's [89] and Bilkey's [17,18]
theories, which provide a theoretical framework for this
study.

2.1.1. Purchase and intention to purchase

Drawing on the Technology Acceptance Model [45],
Theory of Reasoned Action (TRA) [51], and Theory of
Planned Behavior [5], many e-commerce studies have
shown that consumer intentions to engage in online
transactions are a significant predictor of consumers'
actual participation in e-commerce transactions [116].
The relationship between intention and behavior is
based on the assumption that human beings attempt to
make rational decisions based on the information
available to them. Thus, a person's behavioral intention
to perform) a behavior is the
to perform (or not
immediate determinant of that person's actual behavior
[3]. Based on the intention–behavior relationship, we
argue that behavioral intention, or more specifically
intention to purchase (INTENTION) from a certain
vendor through the Web, is a predictor of a consumer's

actual behavior or purchase decision (PURCHASE).2
Therefore:

Hypothesis 1. A consumer's intention to purchase
(INTENTION) through a vendors' Website positively
affects the purchase decision (PURCHASE).

2.1.2. Perceived risk (RISK)

A consumers' perceived risk is an important barrier for
online consumers who are considering whether to make
an online purchase. In this study we define perceived risk
(RISK) as a consumer's belief about
the potential
uncertain negative outcomes from the online transaction.
Since the concept of perceived risk appeared in the
marketing literature, various types of risk have been i
identified [75,118,143]. For example, Jacoby and Kaplan
[75] identified seven types of risks: financial, perfor-
mance, physical, psychological, social, time, and oppor-
tunity cost risk. In the case of Web shopping, three types
of risk are said to be predominant [14]: financial risk,
product risk, and information risk (security and privacy).
Product risk is associated with the product itself; for
example the product may turn out
to be defective.
Financial risk, including opportunity cost and time, is
related not to the product but to the marketing channel
(the Internet); for example the online transaction may be
duplicated because of technological error or unintended
double-click the purchase button. Information risk is
associated with transaction security and privacy; for
example, the requirement that a consumer submits credit
card information through the Internet can evoke appre-
hension due to the possibility of credit card fraud [54].

A consumer's perceived risk has been found to
influence his or her online decisions [4]. It is common
for a customer who is making an online transaction to be
reluctant to purchase on the Web because the sense of risk
may be overwhelming when compared to the traditional
mode of shopping. In the case of a brick-and-mortar retail
store (e.g., Wal-Mart), consumers can walk into the store
and usually touch, feel, and even try the product before
deciding whether to purchase it. This immediately
reduces the amount of perceived risk, and probably
strengthens customers' positive opinions about the brick-
and-mortar stores. In contrast, when purchasing from an
Internet store, a customer has to provide substantial
personal information, including address, phone number,
and even confidential credit card information. After
providing the necessary information, the shopper can only
hope that the transaction will be processed completely

2 Inherently, a consumer's actual behavior is dichotomous since
consumers typically have to either purchase or not purchase the item.

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

547

and accurately. In most cases, he or she has to wait for
days until the product or service is delivered and the
transaction completed. Thus, it should not be surprising
that consumers will be attentive to risk in online
transactions, and such risk may influence their decisions
about whether or not to purchase from an online vendor.
Therefore, we hypothesize that:

Hypothesis 2. A consumer's perceived risk (RISK)
negatively affects a consumer's intention to purchase
(INTENTION) on the Internet.

that

2.1.3. Perceived benefit (BENEFIT)
We define perceived benefit

(BENEFIT) as a
consumer's belief about the extent to which he or she
will become better off from the online transaction with a
certain Website. Internet consumers report
they
purchase on the Web because they perceive many benefits
(e.g., increased convenience, cost savings, time savings,
increased variety of products to select from) compared to
the traditional mode of shopping [95]. Thus, in contrast to
perceived risk which provides a potential barrier to the
online purchase, an Internet consumer's perceived benefit
provides a major incentive for making a purchase online.
Consequently,
the more consumers perceive benefits
related to the online transaction with a certain Website, the
more likely they are to make online transactions. Thus,
we propose that:

Hypothesis 3. A consumer's perceived benefit (BENE-
FIT) positively affects a consumer's intention to purchase
(INTENTION) on the Internet.

2.1.4. Trust (TRUST)

Due to the inherent nature of Internet shopping,
consumers will always experience some level of risk. In
essence, they make bets about the uncertainty of the
future and the free actions of others (e.g., potentially
trustworthy Web vendors, hackers, and unknown new
technologies). In these uncertain situations, when con-
sumers have to act, trust comes into play as a solution for
the specific problems of risk [92]. Trust becomes the
crucial strategy for dealing with an uncertain and
uncontrollable future. As Gambetta [57] argued, trust is
particularly relevant
ignorance or
uncertainty with respect to the unknown or unknowable
actions of others.

in conditions of

Scholars have provided different views regarding the
relationship between trust and risk, i.e. whether trust is an
antecedent of risk, the same as risk, or a by-product of
risk. It is common to treat trust and risk as different
concepts [19,39,80,92,138]. Mayer et al. [98] defined

trust as a behavioral one person based on his/her beliefs
about the characteristics of another person. Based on this
definition, Mayer et al. [98] proposed a model of dyadic
trust in organizational relationships that includes char-
acteristics of both the trustor and trustee that influence the
formation of trust. The three characteristics included in
the model to represent the perceived trustworthiness of
the trustee are ability, benevolence, and integrity. The
logic of this model is that if the trustor perceives a
trustee's (e.g., a vendor's) ability, benevolence, and
integrity to be sufficient, the trustor will develop trust
(an intention to accept vulnerability) toward the trustee. If
the level of trust in a vendor surpasses a threshold of
perceived risk, then the trustor will engage in a risky
relationship with the vendor. In other words, trust is a key
determinant of action in a situation in which there is
perceived risk of a negative outcome [92]. Yet, trust may
not be involved in all risk-taking behaviors. Of course,
trust
the sole predictor of Internet purchase
behavior. People may make a risky Internet purchase
without trust or with a low level of trust. For example, a
consumer might purchase a computer from a suspicious,
generic Internet vendor simply because the price of the
computer is highly discounted from the regular price. As
recognized in Hypothesis 3, this reflects the powerful
incentive that perceived benefits can exert on a purchase
decision.

is not

In sum, trust can operate in two ways to alleviate the
effect of risk on online purchase decisions. First, trust is
relevant in situations where one must enter into risks but
has incomplete control over the outcome [46,121,127].
Therefore, as trust increases, consumers are likely to
perceive less risk than if trust were absent; the effect of
trust is mediated by risk on the consumer's intention to
purchase. Second, several trust researchers have shown a
direct relationship between trust and willingness to buy
online from Internet vendors [15,62,102]. Therefore, we
expect that increases in trust will directly and positively
affect purchase intentions. Based on the arguments above,
we propose:

Hypothesis 4a. A consumer's trust (TRUST) negatively
affects the consumer's perceived risk (RISK) of a
transaction.

Hypothesis 4b. A consumer's trust (TRUST) positively
affects the consumer's intention to purchase (INTENTION).

Finally, we have extended the valence framework,
which recognized the impact of perceived risk and
perceived benefit on the purchase decision, by adding
trust as a critical variable in electronic commerce. Our

548

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

model allows us to examine the direct and indirect effects
of trust on a consumer's intention to purchase. Fig. 1
shows the basic theoretical framework of this study. The
underlying logic of the framework is that a consumer
makes a purchasing decision (PURCHASE) based on his
or her purchase intention (INTENTION). The consumer's
intention (INTENTION)
is affected by his or her
perception of benefit (BENEFIT), risk (RISK), and trust
(TRUST) toward the Internet selling entity. The consumer
will be more likely to engage in an Internet purchase
when perceived risks are low, when perceived benefits are
high, and when trust
is high (direct effect). The
consumer's trust toward the selling party or entity will
also increase his intention to purchase indirectly by
reducing his or her perceptions of risk (indirect effect).

2.2. Antecedents of trust and perceived risk

Understanding the antecedents of consumer trust and
perceived risk can provide Internet business managers
with insights and tools that
they can use to build
consumer trust (e.g. [12]) and manage the perceived
risks that are inherent in the online purchase experience.
In traditional commerce, the trust-building process is
affected by the characteristics of customers, salespersons,
the company, and interactions between the two parties
involved [25,50,128,134]. This is also true in the context
of electronic commerce. We argue that there are four
categories of antecedents that influence consumer trust
and consumers' perceived risk towards electronic com-

merce entities [10,32,50,103,136,144]. These comprise
the following:

• Cognition (observation)-based: e.g., privacy protec-
tion, security protection, system reliability, informa-
tion quality, etc.

• Affect-based: e.g., reputation, presence of third-party
seals, referral, recommendation, buyers' feedback,
word-of-mouth, etc.

• Experience-based: e.g., familiarity, Internet experi-

ence, e-commerce experience, etc.

• Personality-oriented: e.g., disposition to trust, shop-

ping style, etc.

The cognition-based trust antecedents [32,99] are
associated with consumers' observations and perceptions
(e.g., concerning information quality, perceived privacy
fancy
protection, security protection, brand image,
design) regarding the features and characteristics of the
trustee entity. The affect-based trust antecedents [32,99]
are related to indirect interactions with the trustee such as
inputs from others (e.g., trusted third-party seal, referral,
review comments, recommendation, etc). The experi-
ence-based trust antecedents are related to the personal
experiences of consumers with the vendor and Internet
shopping in general. Finally, the personality-oriented trust
antecedents are related to consumers' dispositional
characteristics and shopping habits, which by their nature
are quite stable and therefore difficult for Internet vendors
to manage.

Fig. 1. Basic theoretical framework.

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

549

Since the primary focus of this paper is on a
consumer's online trust and purchase intentions toward
an Internet selling party,
this study will concentrate
primarily on cognition-based and affect-based trust
antecedents. However, in the interest of developing a
more comprehensive framework, we will also consider
some selected aspects of experience-based and personal-
ity-oriented categories. Specifically, we will examine
perceived information quality, perceived privacy protec-
tion, and security protection as cognition-based trust
antecedents, and third-party seal and reputation as the
affect-based antecedents because they are considered to
be the factors most directly relevant to an Internet selling
party. We will also examine familiarity and consumer
disposition to trust
to reflect experience-based and
personality-oriented trust antecedents. Given our interest
in the antecedents of trust and perceived risk, we will also
consider the impact that these factors are likely to have on
perceived risk.

Combining major trust antecedents and the theoretical
framework above, we propose a trust-based consumer
decision-making model in electronic commerce. Fig. 2
presents the proposed research model with hypotheses.

2.2.1. Cognition-based trust antecedents

Information Quality (IQ) refers to a consumer's
general perception of the accuracy and completeness of
Website information as it
relates to products and
transactions. It is well recognized that information on
the Internet varies a great deal in quality, ranging from
highly accurate and reliable, to inaccurate and unreliable,

to intentionally misleading. It is also often very difficult to
tell how frequently the information in Websites is updated
and whether the facts have been checked or not [113].
Thus, potential buyers on the Internet are likely to be
particularly attentive to the quality of information on a
Website because the quality of information should help
them make good purchasing decisions. Acquiring and
processing high quality information are critical activities
for decision makers [105]. As buyers perceive that the
Website presents quality information, they will perceive
that the seller is interested in maintaining the accuracy and
currency of information, and therefore will be more
inclined, and in a better position, to fulfill its obligations.
To the extent that consumers perceive that a Website
presents quality information, they are more likely to have
confidence that the vendor is reliable, and therefore will
perceive the selling entity as trustworthy.

At the same time, high quality information (IQ) helps
reduce the levels of perceived uncertainty and risk related
to an electronic commerce transaction because such
information (i.e., accurate, current, and relevant) should
provide what is needed to conduct the transaction in a
controlled manner and should therefore alleviate the
uncertainty and risk regarding the transaction. Accord-
ingly, we argue that there is negative relationship between
information quality and risk. We propose the following
hypotheses.

Hypothesis 5a. A consumer's perceived information
quality (IQ) positively affects the consumer's trust
(TRUST).

Fig. 2. A trust-based consumer decision-making model.

550

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

Hypothesis 5b. A consumer's perceived information
quality (IQ) negatively affects the consumer's perceived
risk (RISK).

Perceived Privacy Protection (PPP)

refers to a
consumer's perception of the likelihood that the Internet
vendor will
try to protect consumer's confidential
information collected during electronic transactions
from unauthorized use or disclosure. At the time of a
transaction, the online seller collects the names, e-mail
addresses, phone numbers, and home addresses of buyers.
Some sellers pass the information on to spammers,
telemarketers, and direct mailers. The illegal collection
and sale of personal information could harm legitimate
consumers in a variety of ways, ranging from simple
spamming to fraudulent credit card charges and identity
theft [123]. Therefore, for many online consumers, loss of
privacy is a main concern, and the protection of
transaction information is crucial. In a recent survey,
92% of survey respondents indicated that they do not trust
companies to keep their information private even when
the companies promise to do so [90]. These increasing
consumer concerns are forcing sellers to adopt privacy
protection measures to increase their perceived trustwor-
thiness and thereby to encourage online transactions.

Similarly, consumers often perceive that one of the
obligations of a seller is that the seller should not share or
distribute the buyer's private information. Consequently,
if buyers perceive that the seller is unlikely to protect their
privacy, they will perceive greater risk concerning the
transaction with the seller. The arguments above suggest:

Hypothesis 6a. A consumer's perceived privacy protec-
tion (PPP) positively affects the consumer's trust
(TRUST).

Hypothesis 6b. A consumer's perceived privacy protec-
tion (PPP) negatively affects the consumer's perceived risk
(RISK).

Perceived Security Protection (PSP)

refers to a
consumer's perception that the Internet vendor will fulfill
security requirements such as authentication, integrity,
encryption, and non-repudiation. How a consumer
perceives security protection when making online
transactions depends on how clearly she or he under-
stands the level of security measures implemented by the
seller [55]. When an ordinary consumer finds security
features (e.g., a security policy, a security disclaimer, a
safe shopping guarantee, etc.) and protection mechanisms
(e.g., encryption, protection, authentication, SSL tech-
nology, etc) in the seller's Website, he or she can

the security
recognize the seller's intention to fulfill
requirements during online transactions [29]. This helps
the buyer to make a purchase decision since all the above
artifacts will emphasize that the vendor is making efforts
to earn the consumer's trust and diminish the amount of
the
risk that
consumer's perception of security protection increases
the consumer's trust
toward the vendor, and it also
decreases the consumer's perceived risk in completing the
transaction. Based on the arguments above, we propose
the following hypotheses.

the customer perceives. Consequently,

Hypothesis 7a. A consumer's perceived security protec-
tion (PSP) positively affects the consumer's trust
(TRUST).

Hypothesis 7b. A consumer's perceived security protec-
tion (PSP) negatively affects the consumer's perceived risk
(RISK).

2.2.2. Affect-based trust antecedents

The Presence of a Third-Party Seal (TPS) refers to an
assurance of an Internet vendor provided by a third-party
certifying body such as a bank, accountant, consumer
union, or computer company. Recently, a wide variety of
trusted third-party seals have been introduced to help
reduce consumer risk in electronic commerce [131,142].
The purpose of trusted third-party seals is to help reduce
consumers' perceived risk in electronic commerce,
provide assurance to consumers that a Website discloses
it handles
and follows its operating practices,
payments in a secure and reliable way, that it has certain
return policies, and/or that it complies with a privacy
policy that says what it can and cannot do with personal
data it has collected online [28,81,85,129]. An example of
third-parties involved related to online transactions is
WebTrust, a non-profit comprehensive assurance pro-
gram which addresses consumer concerns in a compre-
hensive fashion. The WebTrust mark on Websites informs
buyers that the owners have openly agreed to disclose
their information gathering and dissemination practices,
and that their disclosure is backed by credible third-party
assurance [131].

that

Since trusted third-party guarantors are considered to
have some coercive power over the Web vendor through
the promulgation and enforcement of explicit rules
[56,142], seals issued by certificate authorities may help
decrease the risk that consumers perceive in a transaction
even if the consumer doesn't have prior direct experience
with the Website [33]. And by the same token, the display
of a third-party seal such as WebTrust
indicates to
consumers that the vendor will make a sincere effort to

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

551

uphold its transactional obligations, which should
increase the consumer's trust in the vendor. Therefore,
when Internet customers see the seals on a given site,
it helps to increase the degree of trust and reduce the
actual level of risk they perceive. Accordingly, we pro-
pose that:

Hypothesis 8a. The presence of a third-party seal (TPS)
positively affects the consumer's trust (TRUST).

Hypothesis 8b. The presence of a third-party seal (TPS)
negatively affects the consumer's perceived risk (RISK).

Positive Reputation of Selling Party (REP) has been
considered a key factor for reducing risk [4,22,108,125]
creating trust [50,59,77] because it provides information
that the selling party has honored or met its obligations
toward other consumers in the past. REP refers to the
degree of esteem in which consumers hold a selling party.
Reputation-building is a social process dependent on past
interactions (and in particular, the degree of honesty that a
selling party has demonstrated in those earlier transac-
tions) between consumers and the selling party [141].
Based on its reputation, a consumer is likely to infer that
the selling party is likely to continue its behavior in the
present
transaction [130]. In the case of a positive
reputation, one is likely to infer that the company will
honor its specific obligations to oneself, and therefore
conclude that the selling party is trustworthy. In the case
of a negative reputation, an individual may conclude that
the selling party will not honor its specific obligations,
and hence conclude that it is untrustworthy. And by the
same token, consumers are likely to conclude that it is
inherently risky to transact with a vendor who has a
history of failing to honor its obligations, whereas it is
relatively less risky to transact with a vendor who has a
history of honoring its obligations. Based on the above
arguments, we propose the following hypotheses.

Hypothesis 9a. A positive site reputation (REP) posi-
tively affects the consumer's trust (TRUST).

Hypothesis 9b. A positive site reputation (REP) nega-
tively affects the consumer's perceived risk (RISK).

2.2.3. Experience-based trust antecedents

A consumer's Familiarity with the Online Selling
Party (FAM)
refers to the consumer's degree of
acquaintance with the selling entity, which includes
knowledge of the vendor and understanding its relevant
procedures such as searching for products and informa-
tion and ordering through the Website's purchasing

interface. Familiarity is a “precondition or prerequisite
of trust” [91], because familiarity leads to an understand-
ing of an entity's current actions while trust deals with
beliefs about an entity's future actions [61]. Since
consumers will typically return to Websites where they
have had a favorable experience, but will not return to
Websites where they have had a negative experience,
more often than not consumers will have more familiarity
with Websites where they have had favorable experi-
ences. Accordingly, a consumer's familiarity based on
previous good experience with a Website and the
vendor's services (e.g., ease of searching for products
and information) should cause the consumer to develop
concrete and favorable ideas of what to expect in the
future. Consequently, to the extent that a consumer is
familiar with a Website, he or she is relatively more likely
to expect
the vendor to honor its obligations, and
therefore be judged relatively more trustworthy.

In addition to the effect of familiarity on trust, it is also
important to consider the relationship between familiarity
and a consumer's perceived risk. Some research has
reported that familiarity reduces a consumer's perceived
risk,
interface complexity or uncertainty because it
simplifies the relationship with a selling party
[61,92,91]. For example, familiarity with an e-vendor
(e.g., amazon.com) would reduce uncertainly and
complexity through an understanding of how to search
and purchase items through the site and what
the
transaction procedure involved is based on previous
interactions and experiences [61]. Therefore, similarly we
argue that familiarity alleviates some of the consumer's
perceived risk.

typically be present

interactions may directly affect

Finally, a consumer's familiarity with a selling party
through frequent
the
consumer's willingness to purchase [61]. Familiarity
captures a consumer's subjective experience with respect
to the selling entity, and is usually created by repeated
interactions (e.g., prior purchase experiences or practices
with the selling party's Web interface), and therefore
would not
in most one-time
electronic transactions [6]. In contrast, when a consumer
has developed a pattern of purchasing from a given
Website, due to the familiarity the consumer has
developed with the Website the consumer may simply
purchase again due to habit (e.g., simply returning to
amazon.com without really taking the time to consider
alternate Websites or vendors) or efficiency (e.g.,
returning to amazon.com simply because one can quickly
and easily navigate the search and purchase protocols).
Thus, we hypothesize that familiarity with a selling party
increases customers' intentions to purchase through that
vendor's Website.

552

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

Based on the above arguments we posit that:

Hypothesis 10a. A consumer's familiarity (FAM) with a
selling party positively affects the consumer's trust
(TRUST).

Hypothesis 10b. A consumer's familiarity (FAM) with a
selling party negatively affects the consumer's perceived
risk (RISK).

Hypothesis 10c. A consumer's familiarity (FAM) with a
selling party positively affects the consumer's intention to
purchase (INTENTION).

2.2.4. Consumer personality-oriented antecedents

Consumer disposition to trust (CDT) refers to a
customer's individual
lead to expectations
traits that
about trustworthiness, a consumer-specific antecedent of
trust. A consumer's disposition to trust
is a general
inclination to display faith in humanity and to adopt a
trusting stance toward others [61]. Since consumers have
different developmental experiences, personality types,
and cultural backgrounds, they differ in their inherent
propensity to trust. This tendency is based not upon
experience with or knowledge of a specific trusted party,
but is instead the result of ongoing lifelong experiences
and socialization [56,102,126]. If a consumer has a high
tendency to trust others in general, this disposition is
likely to positively affect his or her trust in a specific
selling party, whereas a consumer with a low tendency to
trust others in general is likely to develop a relatively
lower trust in a specific selling party [102,126]. There-
fore, it is hypothesized that:

Hypothesis 11. A consumer's disposition to trust (CDT)
positively affects the consumer's trust (TRUST).

3. Research methodology and data collection

To test the theoretical framework, we examined the
perceptions and decisions of online consumers as they
shopped for, and eventually decided whether or not to
purchase, a product online. The research participants were
undergraduate students who participated in the study
voluntarily for extra credit. While students represent only a
portion of the online shopper population, several studies
[71,87,103] have utilized them as subjects, recognizing
that students are a useful surrogate for online consumers.
Indeed, online consumers are generally younger and more
educated than are conventional consumers [86,111]. And
data collected in the present study indicated that the
participants in our sample were active online consumers:

over 90% of our respondents reported that they purchased
products at least once through the Internet in the last year,
and their average self-rated Internet experience was 5.52 on
a 7 point scale, with 7 being expert. Appendix 1 provides
further details of the characteristics of respondents.

The participants were asked to visit at least any two B-
to-C retailer Websites to comparison shop for an item of
their choice [2].3 Then, they were instructed to go through
the entire online buying process up to but excluding the
clicking of the buy button to purchase the product. At this
time-point, the participants were randomly assigned to
complete one of two questionnaires: one questionnaire
asked questions about the site from which the student was
more inclined to make a purchase; the other questionnaire
asked the same questions, but about the site from which
the student was less inclined to make a purchase. This
was done to ensure that we had adequate variance in the
purchase intention variable, i.e., that we were collecting
data that were likely to predict non-purchases as well as
purchases. If we had failed to do this, the data would
represent only a fraction of all consumer transactions —
only those that were likely to lead to an intention to
purchase. Finally, after completing the survey, partici-
pants were asked to go ahead and purchase the item from
their preferred site [44,100].

The instrument development for this study was carried
out following the three stages suggested by Moore and
Benbasat [106], including a pilot test conducted prior to
collection of the main study data. The main study data
were collected in two rounds via Web-based4 surveys: a
pre-purchase round, and a post-purchase round. The pre-
purchase round survey comprised all the questions relating
to antecedents of trust and perceived risk (IQ, PPP, PSP,
TPS, REP, FAM, and CDT), trust, perceived risk, and
perceived benefit (TRUST, RISK, and BENEFIT), and
purchase intention (INTENTION). The post-purchase
round of data collection was conducted a few weeks later,
after participants had received the products they had
ordered. In this second round, participants reported their
actual purchase decision (PURCHASE).

4 Web-based surveys have many advantages over

3 This instruction appears to reflect actual purchase behavior. Ahuja
et al. [2] asked respondents the question “how many sites do you visit
before making a purchase decision?” About 75% of respondents
answered that they visited one to three Websites prior to their purchase.
traditional
methods: they are convenient, cheap, fast, more accurate, and can
survey hard-to-reach respondents. On the other hand, there are some
limitations to Web surveys: unequal opportunity and self-selection to
participate [44,100]. Even though only respondents who are able to
access the Internet are able to participate in this survey, this bias is
exactly what is desired of the data for respondents of this study, since
it provides data about actual Internet customers.

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

553

A total of 512 responses were received. After
eliminating incomplete and inappropriate responses
(e.g., duplicates), a total of 468 usable responses were
included in the sample for construct validation and
hypothesis testing.

4. Data analyses and results

To test the proposed research model, data analyses for
both the measurement model and structural model were
performed using Partial Least Squares (PLS). We used
PLS-Graph 3.0.1016 with bootstrapping [124,139]. PLS
analyzes structural equation models, including measure-
ment and structural models with multi-item variables that
contain direct, indirect, and interaction effects [35].

Choosing between a reflective and a formative
indicator is sometimes difficult because the directionality
of the relationship is not always straightforward. When
indicators could be viewed as causing rather than being
caused by the latent variable measured by the indictors,
we operationalized the indicators as formative [93]. In this
study, the BENEFIT and RISK constructs were formed
with indicators that reflected different types of benefits
(i.e., convenience, saving money, saving time, quick
accomplishment of a shopping task, and productivity in
shopping) and risks (i.e., product risk, financial risk, and
overall risk), respectively; consequently, the direction of
causality was from indicator to construct (i.e., formative).
All the other indicators in the model were treated as
reflective indicators of their respective constructs [21].

As a second generation data analysis technique [8],
PLS provides a powerful method for assessing a structural
model and measurement model because of the minimal
demands on measurement scales, sample size, and
residual distributions [34,35,140]. Handling both forma-
tive and reflective indicators, PLS can be used not only
for theory confirmation, but also for suggesting where
relationships might or might not exist and for suggesting
propositions for later testing. The combined analysis of
the measurement and the structural model enables
measurement errors of the observed variables to be
analyzed as an integral part of the model, and factor
analysis to be combined in one operation with hypothesis
testing [63].

To ensure the appropriateness of the research instru-
ment, it was tested for content validity, reliability and
construct validity.

4.1. Content validity

questionnaire was also pilot tested by having a panel of
experts (professors and IS professionals) review it, after
which necessary changes were made to improve both the
content and clarity of the questionnaire. Then, a sample of
respondents separate from those included in the pilot test
was asked to check the questionnaire. These and all pilot
test respondents were excluded from the main sample
used for reliability testing, construct validation, and
hypothesis testing.

4.2. Reliability

The assessment of the measurement model includes
the estimation of internal consistency for reliability, and
tests of convergent and discriminant validity for construct
validity [20,36]. Internal consistency was calculated using
Cronbach's alpha and Fornell's composite reliability5
[52]. Table 1 shows the descriptive statistics for the
constructs, the reliability (Cronbach's alpha) of the scales,
and the sources from which they were adapted.

The Cronbach reliability coefficients of all variables
were higher than the minimum cutoff score of 0.60 [109],
0.65 [88], or 0.70 [109,110]. In contrast to Cronbach's
alpha, which implicitly assumes that each item carries the
same weight, composite reliability relies on the actual
loadings to construct the factor score and is thus a better
measure of internal consistency [52]. Composite reliabil-
ity should be greater than the benchmark of 0.7 to be
considered adequate [52]. All composite reliabilities of
constructs had a value higher than 0.7,
indicating
adequate internal consistency [109]. Additionally, all
Average Variance Extracted (AVE) values of constructs
were higher than 0.50, the suggested minimum [52]. An
AVE greater than 0.5 indicates that more than 50% of the
variance of the measurement items can be accounted for
by the constructs.

4.3. Construct validity

Construct validity was examined by assessing con-
vergent validity and discriminant validity [37]. Conver-
gent validity is considered acceptable when all
item
loadings are greater than 0.50 [139], and the items for
each construct
load onto only one factor with an
eigenvalue greater than 1.0. As noted in Appendix 2,
the items for each construct did indeed load onto only one
factor with an eigenvalue greater than 1.0. The cumulative
percentages of variance explained by each factor were
greater than 63% for all constructs.

To ensure content validity, a thorough review of the
literature on the subject of the study was conducted. The

5 Composite Reliability ¼

ðRkiÞ2varF
ðRkiÞ2 varFþRHii

:

554

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

Table 1
Descriptive statistics and reliability indices for constructs

Construct

Types of indicators

Mean

S.D.

Alpha

Composite reliability

AVE a

Adapted from:

Information quality (IQ)
5.60
Privacy protection (PPP)
3.96
Security protection (PSP)
5.16
Presence of third-party seal (TPS)
4.49
Site reputation (REP)
5.66
Familiarity (FAM)
4.82
Consumer disposition to trust (CDT)
4.41
Consumer trust (TRUST)
5.32
Perceived risk (RISK)
4.11
Perceived benefit (BENEFIT)
5.36
Intention to purchase (INTENTION)
5.03
Note: NA — Not applicable: since formative measures need not co-vary, the internal consistency of formative items is not applicable.

Reflective
Reflective
Reflective
Reflective
Reflective
Reflective
Reflective
Reflective
Formative
Formative
Reflective

0.759
0.669
0.639
0.709
0.708
0.863
0.691
0.774
NA
NA
0.708

0.957
0.924
0.898
0.907
0.906
0.962
0.899
0.911
NA
NA
0.879

.95
1.42
.97
1.08
.98
1.47
1.07
1.04
1.28
1.09
1.26

0.95
0.90
0.86
0.85
0.84
0.92
0.85
0.85
NA
NA
0.79

[49]
[30]
[61,133]
[81,131]
[50,61,78,107]
[61,84]
[61]
[60,78,114]
[53,78,84]
[14,53,106]
[61,78]

a Average Variance Extracted ¼ Rki2varF

:

Rki2varFþRHii

The average variance extracted (AVE) can also be used
to evaluate discriminant validity. The AVE from the
construct should be higher than the variance shared
between the construct and other variables in the model
[34,52]. Discriminant validity can be checked by exam-
ining whether the correlations between the variables are
lower than the square root of the average variance
extracted. Table 2 indicates that all the square roots of
each AVE value are greater
than the off-diagonal
elements. This indicates discriminant validity among
variables.

4.4. Structural model assessment

The assessment of the structural model

includes
estimating path coefficients and R2. Both R2 and the
path coefficients indicate model fit, i.e., how well the
model is performing [34,35,74]. Fig. 3 shows the results
of assessment and hypothesis testing. As shown in the

figure, consumer trust (TRUST) had a strong positive
effect on a consumer's purchasing intention (INTEN-
TION). TRUST had a strong negative effect on risk
(RISK). As we proposed and expected, the path coef-
ficients of both RISK → INTENTION and BENEFIT →
INTENTION were significant at the 0.01 level. Thus 2,
H3, H4a, and H4b were supported. Three hypothesized
paths from the perception-based trust antecedents (infor-
mation quality, privacy protection, security protection) to
TRUST were significant at p b 0.05 or lower,
thus
validating 5a, H6a, and H7a respectively. Among the
two affect-based trust antecedents,
reputation was
the p b 0.01 level, validating H9a. The
significant at
hypothesized path from consumer disposition to trust
(CDT), a personality-oriented trust antecedent, had a
positive significant effect on TRUST, validating H11.

Among the hypothesized paths from the perception-
based and affect-based trust antecedents to RISK,
perceived privacy protection (PPP), perceived security

Table 2
Correlations of latent variables

IQ

PPP

PSP

TPS

REP

FAM

CDT

TRUST

RISK

BENEFIT

INTENTION

IQ
PPP
PSP
TPS
REP
FAM
CDT
TRUST
RISK
BENEFIT
INTENTION

0.87
0.40
− 0.16
0.12
0.50
0.33
0.20
0.63
− 0.17
0.01
0.47

0.82
0.12
0.03
0.25
0.16
0.10
0.68
− 0.23
0.05
0.31

0.80
0.06
0.13
0.09
0.10
0.21
− 0.03
− 0.01
− 0.13

0.84
0.10
0.09
0.02
0.05
− 0.03
− 0.05
0.02

0.84
0.41
0.17
0.48
− 0.43
0.03
0.35

0.93
0.02
0.30
− 0.09
0.18
0.36

0.83
0.23
− 0.03
0.05
0.13

0.88
−0.22
0.06
0.50

0.83
−0.08
−0.22

0.76
0.21

0.84

Note: Diagonal elements are the square root of average variance extracted. These values should exceed the inter-construct correlations for adequate
discriminant validity.

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

555

Fig. 3. Results of structural model.

protection (PSP), presence of a third-party seal (TPS), and
reputation (REP) had significant negative effects on risk
at the 0.05 level or lower. These findings support H6b,
H7b, H8b, and H9b respectively. The hypothesized path
to RISK was not
from information quality (IQ)
significant, not supporting H5b. Interestingly, familiarity
(FAM) had positive effects on a consumer's trust and
purchasing intention, but the effect of familiarity on a
consumer's perceived risk was not significant, validating
H10a and H10c. The R2 for TRUST, RISK, and
INTENTION were .65, .78, and .34 reflecting that the
model provides strong explanations of the variance in
consumer trust, perceived risk, and intention to purchase
respectively.

rather

The nature of our dependent variable, PURCHASE,
dictates that it is measured with a single dichotomous
(purchase or not purchase) indicator. PLS assumes that
variables are scalar
than dichotomous [35],
therefore would underestimate the magnitude of an effect
on a dichotomous variable. To more accurately estimate
the effect of INTENTION on PURCHASE, we con-
ducted a logistic regression analysis of the bivariate
relationship between intention and purchase. The logistic
regression model also included three other constructs
(RISK, BENEFIT and TRUST) as potential predictors so
that the effects of INTENTION on PURCHASE could be

isolated from other effects. Table 3 presents the results
from the logistic regression analysis. We found that
intention was indeed a strong predictor of purchase
behavior (beta = .397, R2 = .301; p b .001) while other
constructs did not have a strong effect on purchase (Log
Likelihood Ratio L = 606.369, p b 0.001). In sum, the
results strongly suggest that when consumers have a
higher level of intention to purchase from an Internet

Table 3
Summary of statistics and logistic regression results

PURCHASE

Intention mean

Intention S.D.

Not purchase (0)
Purchase (1)

4.66
5.32

1.29
1.15

Results of logistic regression analysis

Model
− 2 Log Likelihood (L)
Variable
INTENTION
RISK
BENEFIT
TRUST
Constant term

Chi-square d.f.

34.538

4

B
.397
.057
.059
.092
−2.791

606.369

S.E. Wald
.102
.082
.110
.117
.809

15.231
.482
.286
.619
11.908

Sig.

.000

Sig.
.000
.488
.493
.431
.001

N

207
261

R2
.301

556

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

vendor's Website,
purchase from that site, thus supporting H1.

they are more likely to actually

5. Discussion and conclusion

Past research has recognized that electronic purchase
decisions are inherently risky, and therefore trust may be
an important factor in giving consumers the confidence
they need to engage in such transactions [7,38,62,
78,135]. Yet many researchers have not systematically
explored how trust and perceived risk may operate in
combination to influence such decisions and what kinds
of trust and risk antecedents play a significant role in the
consumer trust-building process. In this paper, based on
the net valence framework [119] we developed a trust-
based consumer decision-making model
in electronic
commerce that recognizes that trust, perceived risk, and
perceived benefit may directly influence purchase inten-
tions and decisions, and trust may also influence purchase
intentions indirectly by influencing risk perceptions.
Additionally, the consumer decision-making model ex-
plores four different categories of trust antecedents that
affect trust and/or perceived risk in such situations. While
these represent important contributions for research, we
also note that most of the predictors of trust and perceived
risk identified in the model also represent factors that can
be directly or indirectly controlled by vendors through
Website design (e.g., information quality, security and
privacy protections, third-party seals) or the conduct of
business transactions (e.g., reputation). Thus, the model
and results are likely to have important practical
implications for merchants who wish to build their
Internet business by increasing their customers' trust and
decreasing their customers' risk.

5.1. Research findings

The empirical results suggest that a consumer's trust
directly and indirectly affects his or her purchasing
intention. A consumer's trust has a strong positive effect
on the purchasing intention as well as a strong negative
effect on a consumer's perceived risk. This study also
provides evidence that a consumer's perceived risk
reduces the consumer's intention to purchase, whereas a
consumer's perceived benefit increases the consumer's
purchasing intention. And finally, we found that these
effects of trust, perceived risk, and perceived benefit on
purchase intentions, ultimately had a “downstream” effect
on consumers' actual purchase decisions. Thus, these
findings validate the argument that a consumer's trust is
an important factor in electronic, “cyber” transaction
decision, and thereby support our extended version of the

valence framework. Finally, the results indicate that trust
to a large degree addresses the risk problem in e-
commerce in two ways: by reducing perceived risk and
by increasing purchase intentions directly (trust was the
strongest predictor of the online consumer's purchase
intention, followed by perceived benefit and perceived
risk respectively).

All of the cognition-based and affect-based trust
antecedents except third-party seals (TPS) had strong
trust, suggesting that
positive effects on consumer
consumers consider a relatively wide variety of percep-
tions and observations when developing their trust in a
Website and vendor. In addition, all of the cognition-
based and affect-based antecedents except information
quality (IQ) had negative effects on a consumer's per-
ceived risk, indicating that consumers are also attentive to
a relatively wide range of factors when assessing the risk
from an online transaction. Among the cognition-based
trust antecedents, it is interesting to note that consumers'
perceptions of privacy protection (PPP) and security
protection (PSP) both had strong influences on trust and
risk. This suggests that both privacy and security are
important for consumers as they shop online. That is,
although logically it might seem that privacy superfluous
when security is present, and security is superfluous when
privacy is present, our results suggest that consumers
independently value privacy and security. In sum, our
findings provide strong support for our arguments that
cognition-based and affect-based factors increase a
consumer's trust as well as decrease a consumer's per-
ceived risk in completing an e-commerce transaction.

trust

One interesting finding is that the presence of third-
party seals (TPS) did not influence consumer's trust but
they did decrease a consumer's perceived risk. This is
consistent with scholars' arguments [40,83,104] that the
presence of assurance seals has no significant effect on the
consumer's trust and intention to purchase from a
Website. However, this issue is not yet resolved in the
literature, since several other scholars have argued that the
presence of assurance seals has a significant impact on
consumers'
results
indicate that third-party seals did not influence trust, the
third-party seals are an
results still emphasize that
important factor in online commerce, because they
impact purchase intentions and decisions by reducing a
consumer's perceptions of risk. We also note another
potential explanation for the lack of an effect of third-
party seals on trust. It may be that consumers simply do
not recognize a third-party seal as an assurance of trust. In
fact, despite the fact that our sample comprised relatively
active online consumers, 73.7% of our respondents
reported that they were not even aware that Websites

[73,87,97,142]. While our

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

557

are endorsed by third parties. Considering that there is
a relatively large industry centered on providing third-
party seals, our results suggest that the industry should
provide more consumer education about
their seal
services.

Interestingly, familiarity (FAM) had a strong direct
influence on consumers' purchase intentions and trust as
expected, however familiarity did not have a significant
direct effect on consumers' perceived risk. One possible
reason for this insignificant effect on perceived risk is
that familiarity by its nature deals with complexity or
uncertainty related to interfaces or procedures (e.g.,
searching and ordering products and/or services) which
can reflect a vendor's competence and therefore its ability
to honor its obligations (i.e., its trustworthiness), but not
the presence of risk.

Finally, we found that our personality-oriented ante-
cedent, a consumer's disposition to trust (CDT), had a
significant effect on a consumer trust. This is consistent
with previous studies on the relationship between trust
and consumer disposition to trust [61,102,117].

5.2. Theoretical and practical contributions

This study has both theoretical and practical contribu-
tions. From a theoretical perspective,
the trust-based
consumer decision-making model provides a holistic
view of an online consumer's purchase decision-making
process, incorporating the effects of the consumer's trust
and perceived risk and benefits, and a range of
antecedents of trust and perceived risk, and assessing
the impact of these factors not only on purchase intentions
about also on actual purchase behaviors. Thus, our study
provides perhaps the most comprehensive understanding
to date of the trust- and risk-related factors that consumers
consider as they engage in online commerce. In addition,
prior studies have often not adequately distinguished
between trust, perceived risk, and perceived benefit, and
concomitantly have not understood their relationships
with each other or how they work independently or in
combination to influence purchase intentions and deci-
sions. By distinguishing among the concepts both
conceptually and empirically, we believe we have
provided important insights into their distinct roles in
the online purchase experience.

From a practical standpoint,

the results highlight
trust-enhancing factors that may guide the
several
successful completion of electronic commerce transac-
tions in B-to-C environments. Specifically, we identified a
number of potentially important determinants of con-
sumers' trust
in a Website, and ultimately of their
likelihood of purchasing from a Website, and we provided

empirical evidence concerning the relative impact of each
of these determinants on consumers' trust and purchase
intentions. Thus, the theoretical framework and results
may allow Internet retailers to better incorporate trust-
building mechanisms into their Websites by focusing on
the factors identified in this study. More specifically, our
results suggest
that since consumers' perceptions of
privacy and security protection, information quality, third-
party seals, and reputation are strong predictors of trust
and/or risk, Internet business managers should pay
particular attention to these factors in order to increase
transaction volume.

5.3. Limitations and directions for future research

Future research will be needed to assess the gen-
eralizability of our findings. While our research partici-
pants reflect a fairly typical band of actual and potential
Internet consumers, they may not be representative of all
consumers. For example, older consumers may be even
less comfortable with online purchasing due to their lack
of familiarity with computers and the Internet. It is likely
that for these consumers, trust and risk will loom even
larger than for younger, more experienced individuals,
therefore our model may be equally if not more predictive
of purchase decisions for such consumers. Yet research is
needed to consider whether this is so. Although our model
received strong empirical support, we would also like to
recognize the possibility of alternative models for
understanding the relationships among the constructs
examined in our study. For instance, we have proposed
that trust functions as a mediator. In other words, the
model assumes that the exogenous variables influence
purchase intentions via their effect on trust. Research by
McKnight and colleagues [101,102] suggests that these
factors might influence purchase intentions directly, rather
than indirectly via trust. Alternatively, trust could be
positioned as a moderator of the relationship between
perceived risk and purchase intention. In this view, trust
would influence purchase intention only when the
transaction is perceived as risky [98]. Given the early
stage of research on the topic of trust and risk in Internet
transactions, our aim in the present study was only to test
the theoretical framework of the study, not advocate one
particular model or framework over another. Thus, future
research may fruitfully consider how these alternative
models of the relationships among trust, risk, purchase
intentions and decisions, and their antecedents, may
complement or contradict each other,
the various
conditions under which the models may or may not
hold, and ways in which the models might potentially be
integrated.

558

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

Appendix A

Demographic Characteristics of Respondents

Characteristics

Age
Gender
Male
Female

Education level (highest level of education completed)

High school
Some college (2 year community/vocation/technology school)
College graduate (4 years)
Beyond master degree

Household income
Under $20,000
$20,001–$60,000
$60,001–$100,000
Over $100,000
Do not want to say

Products purchased
Books/magazines
Computer hardware
Computer software
Clothing/shoes
CDs/tapes/albums
Travel arrangements (e.g., airline tickets)
Home electronics/appliances
Concerts/plays
Others

Money spent on this purchase

Less than $25
$26–$50
$51–$100
$101–$300
$301–$500
More than $500

Frequency of Internet purchases in last year

Never
1–5
6–10
11–15
16–20
More than 20

How many years using the Internet

Less than 6 months
6 to 12 months
1–2 years
3–4 years
5–7 years
More than 7 years

Experience on computer (1—novice/7—expert)
Experience on the Internet (1–novice/7–expert)

Note: Missing data are not counted in frequency.

Frequency

Percentage

–

260
206

66
344
49
6

173
106
75
39
52

98
32
10
108
76
35
27
6
66

154
125
97
65
10
16

39
283
80
28
12
20

1
4
22
183
179
78
–
–

–

57.8
42.2

14.1
73.5
10.5
1.2

37.5
22.6
16.0
8.3
11.1

20.9
6.8
2.1
23.1
16.2
7.5
5.8
1.3
14.1

32.9
26.7
20.7
13.9
2.1
3.4

8.3
60.5
17.1
6.0
2.6
4.3

.2
.9
4.7
39.1
38.2
16.7
–
–

Mean

21.53

S.D.

3.42

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

5.31
5.52

1.04
0.99

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

559

Appendix B

Proposed Measurement Items for Constructs

Constructs

Measurement items

Familiarity with the
Website (FAM)

Overall, I am familiar with this site.
I am familiar with searching for items on this site.
I am familiar with the process of purchasing from this site.
I am familiar with buying products from this site.

Presence of third-party

seal (TPS)

Prefer to buy from Websites that carry such an endorsement.
Third-party seals make me feel more comfortable.
Third-party seals make me feel more secure in terms of privacy.
Third-party seals make me feel safer in terms of the transaction.

Adapted from Loading

[60]
[60]
[60]
[60]

.915
.921
.951
.928
Eigenvalue 3.45
Percent of explained variance 86.26

New item
New item
New item
New item

.759
.856
.859
.889
Eigenvalue 2.83
Percent of explained variance 70.90

Perceived privacy
protection (PPP)

Perceived security
protection (PSP)

I am concerned that
This Website is collecting too much personal information from me.
This Web vendor will use my personal information for other purposes without my authorization.
This Web vendor will share my personal information with other entities without my authorization.
Unauthorized persons (i.e. hackers) have access to my personal information.
I am concerned about the privacy of my personal information during a transaction.
This Web vendor will sell my personal information to others without my permission.

This Web vendor implements security measures to protect Internet shoppers.
This Web vendor usually ensures that transactional information is protected
from accidentally being altered or destroyed during a transmission on the Internet.
I feel secure about the electronic payment system of this Web vendor.
I am willing to use my credit card on this site to make a purchase.
I feel safe in making transactions on this Website.
In general, providing credit card information through this site is riskier
than providing it over the phone to an offline vendor.

Information quality (IQ) This Website provides correct information about the item that I want to purchase.
Overall, I think this Website provides useful information.
This Website provides timely information on the item.
This Website provides reliable information.
This Website provides sufficient information when I try to make a transaction.
I am satisfied with the information that this Website provides.
Overall, the information this Website provides is of high quality.

Site reputation (REP)

This Website is well known.
This Website has a good reputation.
This Website vendor has a reputation for being honest.
I am familiar with the name of this Website.

Consumer disposition
to trust (CDT)

I generally trust other people.
I generally have faith in humanity.
I feel that people are generally reliable.
I generally trust other people unless they give me reasons not to.

Consumer trust
(TRUST)

This site is trustworthy.
This Website vendor gives the impression that it keeps promises and commitments.
I believe that this Website vendor has my best interests in mind.

[31]
[31]
[31]
New item
[31]
[31]

.803
.898
.888
.781
.783
.743
Eigenvalue 4.01
Percent of explained variance 66.91
.725
[31]
.749
[31]

[31]
[60]
[60]
[133]

.856
.846
.813
.759

Eigenvalue 3.34
Percent of explained variance 72.90
.832
[49]
.891
New item
.895
[49]
.862
New item
.880
[49]
.861
[49]
.878
New item
Eigenvalue 5.31
Percent of explained variance 75.93
.880
[78]
.891
[78]
.775
[107]
.814
[60]
Eigenvalue 2.83
Percent of explained variance 70.82
[60]
.838
.828
[60]
.856
[60]
.802
[60]
Eigenvalue 2.76
Percent of explained variance 69.09
.899
[60,78]
.910
[78]
.830
[78]
Eigenvalue 2.32
Percent of explained variance 77.43

(continued on next page)

Adapted from Loading

[78]

.822

New item

.848

[84]

.807
Eigenvalue 2.04
Percent of explained variance 68.23
.786
[133]
.631
New item
.870
New item
.831
New item

[45,106]

.823

560

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

Appendix B (continued )
(continued)

Constructs
Perceived risk (RISK)⁎ Purchasing from this Website would involve more product risk

Measurement items

(i.e. not working, defective product) when compared with more traditional ways of shopping.
Purchasing from this Website would involve more financial risk
(i.e. fraud, hard to return) when compared with more traditional ways of shopping.
How would you rate your overall perception of risk from this site?

Perceived benefit
(BENEFIT)⁎

Intention to purchase
(INTENTION)

I think using this Website is convenient.
I can save money by using this Website.
I can save time by using this Website.
Using this Website enables me to accomplish a shopping task more quickly
than using traditional stores.
Using this Website increases my productivity in shopping
(e.g., make purchase decisions or find product information within the shortest time frame).

I am likely to purchase the products(s) on this site.
I am likely to recommend this site to my friends.
I am likely to make another purchase from this site if I need the products that I will buy.

Eigenvalue 3.14
Percent of explained variance 62.79
.829
[60]
.855
[78]
.840
[78]
Eigenvalue 2.12
Percent of explained variance 70.77

Note: ⁎Items are treated as formative indicators.

References

[1] Online Advertising To Reach $33 Billion Worldwide By 2004,
Forrester Research Press, 1999 http://www.forrester.com/ER/
Press/Release/0,1769,159,FF.html.

[2] M. Ahuja, B. Gupta, P. Raman, An empirical investigation of
online consumer purchasing behavior, Communications of the
ACM 46 (12ve) (2003) 145–151.

[3] I. Ajzen, M. Fishbein, Understanding Attitude and Predicting
Social Behavior, Prentice-Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1980.
[4] S. Antony, Z. Lin, B. Xu, Determinants of escrow service adoption
in consumer-to-consumer online auction market: an experimental
study, Decision Support Systems 42 (3) (2006) 1889–1900.
[5] I. Arzen, The theory of planned behavior, Organizational Behavior

and Human Decision Processes 50 (1991) 179–211.

[6] S. Ba, P.A. Pavlou, Evidence of the effect of trust building
technology in electronic markets: price premiums and buyer
behavior, MIS Quarterly 26 (3) (2002) 243–268.

[7] S. Ba, A.B. Whinston, H. Zhang, Building trust in online auction
markets through an economic incentive mechanism, Decision
Support Systems 35 (3) (2003) 273–286.

[8] R.P. Bagozzi, C. Fornell, Theoretical concepts, measurement, and
in A Second Generation of

in: C. Fornell (Ed.),

meaning,
Multivariate Analysis, Praeger, 1982, pp. 5–23.

[9] S. Balasubramanian, P. Konana, N.M. Menon, Customer
satisfaction in virtual environments: a study of online investing,
Management Science 49 (7) (2003) 871–889.

[10] J.B. Barney, M.H. Hansen, Trustworthiness as a source of
competitive advantage, Strategic Management Journal 15 (1994)
175–190.

[11] S.E. Beatty, M. Mayer, J.E. Coleman, K.E. Reynolds, J. Lee,
Customer–sales associate retail relationships, Journal of Retailing
72 (3) (1996) 223–247.

[12] F. Belanger, J.S. Hiller, W.J. Smith, Trustworthiness in elec-
tronic commerce: the role of privacy, security, and site attributes,
Journal of Strategic Information Systems 11 (2002) 245–270.
[13] M. Benantar, The Internet public key infrastructure, IBM Systems

Journal 40 (3) (2001) 648–665.

[14] A. Bhatnagar, S. Misra, H.R. Rao, On risk, convenience, and
internet shopping behavior, Communications of the ACM 43 (11)
(2000) 98–114.

[15] A. Bhattacherjee, Individual trust in online firms: scale develop-
ment and initial test, Journal of Management Information Systems
19 (1) (2002) 211–242.

[16] A. Bhimani, Securing the commercial Internet, Communications

of the ACM 39 (6) (1996) 29–35.

[17] W.J. Bilkey, A psychological approach to consumer behavior

analysis, Journal of Marketing 18 (1953) 18–25.

[18] W.J. Bilkey, Psychic tensions and purchasing behavior, Journal of

Social Psychology 41 (1955) 247–257.

[19] P. Blau, Exchange in Power and Social Life, John Wiley, New

York, 1964.

[20] K.A. Bollen, Structural Equations with Latent Variables, Wiley,

New York, NY, 1989.

[21] K. Bollen, R. Lennox, Conventional wisdom on measurement: a
structural equation perspective, Psychological Bulletin 110 (1991)
305–314.

[22] A. Boot, S. Greedbaum, A. Thakor, Reputation and discretion in
financial contracting, American Economic Review 83 (5) (1993)
1165–1183.

[23] S. Brainov, T. Sandholm, Contracting with Uncertain Level of
Trust, Presented at E-COMMERCE, Denver, CO, 1999,
pp. 15–21.

[24] E. Brynjolfsson, M. Smith, Frictionless commerce? A comparison
of Internet and conventional retailers, Management Science 46 (4)
(2000) 563–585.

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

561

[25] R. Burt, M. Knez, Trust and third-party gossip, in: R.M. Kramer,
T.R.T. (Eds.), Trust in Organizations: Frontiers of Theory and
Research, Sage, 1996.

[26] A. Canzaroli, Y. Tan, W. Thoen, The Social and Institutional
Context of Trust in Electronic Commerce, Presented at Autono-
mous Agents '99 Workshop “Deception, Fraud and Trust in Agent
Societies”, 1999, pp. 65–76.

[27] C. Castelfranchi, R. Falcone, The Dynamics of Trust: from Beliefs
to Action, Presented at Autonomous Agents '99 Workshop on
Deception, Fraud and Trust in Agent Societies, Seattle, WA, 1999,
pp. 41–54.

[28] C. Castelfranchi, Y.-H. Tan, Trust and Deception in Virtual

Societies, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001.
[29] R.K. Chellappa, P.A. Pavlou, Consumter trust

in electronic
commerce transactions, Logistics Information Management 15
(5/6) (2002) 358–368.

[30] L.-D. Chen, “Consumer Acceptance of Virtual Stores: A
Theoretical model and Critical Success Factors for Virtual
Stores,” University of Memphis, Doctoral Dissertation, (2000).

[31] M. Chen, J. Han, P.S. Yu, Data mining: an overview from a
database perspective, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data
Engineering 8 (6) (1996).

[32] C.C. Chen, X.-P. Chen, J.R. Meindl, How can cooperation be
fostered? The cultural effects of individualism–collectivism,
Academy of Management Review 23 (2) (1998) 285–304.
[33] C.M.K. Cheung, M.K.O. Lee, Understanding consumer trust in
Internet shopping: a multidisciplinary approach, Journal of the
American Society for Information Science and Technology 57 (4)
(2006) 479–492.

[34] W.W. Chin, Issues and opinion on structural equation modeling,

MIS Quarterly 22 (1) (1998) 7–16.

[35] W.W. Chin, The Partial Least Squares approach to structural
equation modeling, in: G.A. Marcoulides (Ed.), Modern Methods
for Business Research, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah,
NJ, 1998, pp. 295–336.

[36] W.W. Chin, P.A. Todd, One the use, usefulness, and ease of use of
structural equation modeling in MIS research: a note of caution,
MIS Quarterly 19 (2) (1995) 237–246.

[37] W.W. Chin, A. Gopal, W.D. Salisbury, Advancing the theory of
adaptive structuration: the development of a scale to measure
faithfulness of appropriation, Information Systems Research 8 (4)
(1997) 342–367.

[38] Y. Cho, I. Im, J. Fjermestad, R. Hiltz, The effects of post-purchase
evaluation factors on online vs. offline customer complaining
behavior:
loyalty, Advances in
Consumer Research 29 (2002).

implications for customer

[39] J. Coleman, Foundations of Social Theory, Harvard University

Press, Cambridge, Ma, 1990.

[40] L.F. Cranor, J. Reagle, M.S. Ackerman, Beyond Concern:
Understanding Net Users' Attitudes about Online Privacy,
AT&T Labs-Research Technical Report, 1999.

[41] L.L. Cummings, P. Bromiley, The Organizational Trust
Inventory (OTI): development and validation,
in: R.M.
Karamer, T.R. Tyler (Eds.), Trust in Organizations: Frontiers
of Theory and Research, Sage, Thousand Oaks, CA, 1996,
pp. 302–320.

[42] J.A. Czepiel, Service encounters and service relationships:
implications for research, Journal of Business Research 20 (1)
(1990) 13–21.

[43] P. Dasgupta, Trust as a commodity, in: D.G. Gambetta (Ed.),
Trust: Making and Breaking Cooperative Relations, Basil Black-
well, New York, 1990, pp. 49–72.

[44] J.L. David, You've got surveys, American Demographics 22 (11)

(2000) 42–44.

[45] F.D. Davis, Perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, and user
acceptance of information technology, MIS Quarterly 13 (3)
(1989) 319–340.

[46] M. Deutsch, The effect of motivational orientation upon trust and

suspicion, Human Relations 13 (1960) 123–139.

[47] K.T. Dirks, D.L. Ferrin, The role of trust in organizational settings,

Organization Science 12 (4) (2001) 450–467.

[48] M.L. Doerfel, G.A. Barnett, A semantic network analysis of the
International Communication Association, Human Communica-
tion Research 25 (4) (1999) 389–603.

[49] W.J. Doll, G. Torkzadeh, The measurement of end-user computing

satisfaction, MIS Quarterly 12 (2) (1988) 259–274.

[50] P.M. Doney, J.P. Cannon, An examination of the nature of trust in
buyer–seller relationships, Journal of Marketing 61 (2) (1997)
35–51.

[51] M. Fishbein, I. Ajzen, Belief, Attitude, Intention, and Behavior:
an Introduction to Theory and Research, Addison-Wesley,
1975.

[52] C. Fornell, D. Larcker, Evaluating structural equation models with
unobservable variables and measurement error, Journal of
Marketing Research 18 (1981) 39–50.

[53] S. Forsythe, C. Liu, D. Shannon, L.C. Gardner, Development of a
scale to measure the perceived benefits and risks of online
shopping, Journal of Interactive Marketing 20 (2) (2006) 55–75.
[54] E.H. Fram, D.B. Grady, Internet shoppers: is there a surfer gender

gap? Direct Marketing 59 (9) (1997) 46–50.

[55] B. Friedman, Trust online, Communications of the ACM 43 (12)

(2000) 34–40.

[56] F. Fukuyama, Trust: The Social Virtues and the Creation of

Prosperity, Free Press, New York, NY, 1995.

[57] D.G. Gambetta, “Can We Trust Trust?,” in Trust: Making and
Breaking Cooperative Relations, Gambetta, Ed., electronic edi-
tion ed. Department of Sociology, University of Oxford, (1988),
213–237.

[58] D. Gambetta, Trust: Making and Breaking Cooperative Relations,

Basil Blackwell Inc., New York, NY, 1990.

[59] S. Ganesan, Determinants of long-term orientation in buyer–seller

relationships, Journal of Marketing 58 (1994) 1–19.

[60] D. Gefen, E-commerce:

the role of familiarity and trust,
The International Journal of Management Science 28 (2000)
725–737.

[61] D. Gefen, E-commerce: the role of familiarity and trust, Omega:
The International Journal of Management Science 28 (6) (2000)
725–737.

[62] D. Gefen, Reflections on the dimensions of trust and trustwor-
thiness among online consumers, ACM SIGMIS Database 33 (3)
(2002) 38–53.

[63] D. Gefen, D.W. Straub, M.-C. Boudreau, Structural equation
modeling and regression: guidelines for research practice,
Communications of the AIS 4 (2000) 1–77.

[64] D. Gefen, E. Karahanna, D.W. Straub, Trust and TAM in online
shopping: an integrated model, MIS Quarterly 27 (1) (2003)
51–90.

[65] N.R. Goodwin, Economic Meanings of Trust and Responsibility,
The University of Michigan Press, Ann Arbor, MI, 1996.
[66] P. Grabosky, The nature of trust online, The Age, 2001,

pp. 1–12.

[67] R. Gulati, Does familiarity breed trust? The implications of
repeated ties for contractual choice in alliances, Academy of
Management Journal 38 (1) (1995) 85–112.

562

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

[68] C. Handy, Trust and the virtual organization, Harvard Business

[90] D.A. Light, Sure, you can trust us, MIT Sloan Management

Review 73 (3) (1995) 40–50.

[69] D.L. Hoffman, T.P. Novak, M. Peralta, Building consumer trust
online, Association for Computing Machinery. Communications
of the ACM 42 (4) (1999) 80–85.

[70] M. Hollis, Trust within Reason, Cambridge University Press,

Cambridge, UK, 1998.

[71] R.W. Houston, G.K. Taylor, Consumer perceptions of CPA Web
Trust SM assurances: evidence on expectation gap, International
Journal of Auditing 3 (1999) 89–105.

[72] H. Hsiung, S. Scheurich, F. Ferrante, Bridging e-business and
added trust: keys to e-business growth, IT-Pro (March–April
2001) 41–45.

[73] X. Hu, Z. Lin, H. Zhang, Trust-promoting seals in electronic
markets: an exploratory study of their effectiveness for online
sales promotion, Journal of Promotion Management 9 (1–2)
(2003) 163–180.

[74] J. Hulland, Use of Partial Least Squares (PLS) in strategic
management research: a review of four recent studies, Strategic
Management Journal 20 (2) (1999) 195–204.

[75] J. Jacoby, L. Kaplan, The components of perceived risk, Advances

in Consumer Research 3 (1972) 382–383.

trust

[76] S.L. Jarvenpaa, K. Knoll, D.E. Leidner, Is anybody out there?
teams, Journal of

Antecedents of
Management Information Systems 14 (4) (1998) 29–64.
[77] S.L. Jarvenpaa, N. Tractinsky, L. Saarinen, M. Vitale, Consumer
trust in an Internet store: a cross-cultural validation, Journal of
Computer Mediated Communication 5 (2) (1999).

in global virtual

[78] S.L. Jarvenpaa, N. Tractinsky, M. Vitale, Consumer trust in an
Internet store, Information Technology and Management 1 (1–2)
(2000) 45–71.

[79] F.L. Jeffries, R. Reed, Trust and adaptation in relational
contracting, Academy of Management. The Academy of
Management Review 25 (4) (2000) 873–882.

[80] H. Kee, R. Knox, Conceptual and methodological considerations
in the study of trust, Journal of Conflict Resolution 14 (1970)
357–366.

[81] D.J. Kim, N. Sivasailam, H.R. Rao, Information assurance in B2C
websites for information goods/services, Electronic Markets 14
(4) (2004) 344–359.

[82] D.J. Kim, Y.I. Song, S.B. Braynov, H.R. Rao, A multi-dimensional
in B-to-C e-commerce: a conceptual
trust formation model
framework and content analyses of academia/practitioner perspec-
tive, Decision Support Systems 40 (2) (2005) 143–165.

[83] K.M. Kimery, M. McCord, Third-party assurances: mapping the
road to trust in e-retailing, Journal of Information Technology
Theory & Application (JITTA) 4 (2) (2002) 63–82.

[84] A. Kohli, Determinants of influence in organizational buying:
a contingency approach, Journal of Marketing 53 (1989)
50–65.

[85] R. Koreto, In CPAs we trust, Journal of Accountancy 184 (6)

(1997) 62–64.

[86] J. Kotkin, The mother of all malls, Forbes 161 (7) (1998) 60–65.
[87] S.E. Kovar, K.G. Burke, B.R. Kovar, Consumer perceptions of
CPA WebTrust assurances: evidence of an expectation gap,
International Journal of Auditing 3 (2000) 89–105.

[88] J.-N. Lee, Y.-G. Kim, Effect of partnership quality on IS
outsourcing: conceptual framework and empirical validation,
Journal of Management Information Systems 15 (4) (1999)
29–61.

[89] K. Lewin, Forces behind food habits and methods of change,
Bulletin of the National Research Council 108 (1943) 35–65.

Review 43 (1) (2001) 17.

[91] N. Luhmann, Trust and Power, Wiley, Chichester, UK, 1979.
[92] N. Luhmann, Familiarity, confidence,

trust: problems and
alternatives, in: D. Gambetta (Ed.), Trust: Making and Breaking
Cooperative Relations, Basil Blackwell, Oxford, 1988,
pp. 94–107.

[93] R.C. MacCallum, M.W. Browne, The use of causal indicators in
covariance structure models: some practical issues, Psychological
Bulletin 114 (3) (1993) 533–541.

[94] D.W. Manchala, E-commerce trust metrics and models, IEEE

Internet Computing 4 (2) (2000) 36–44.

[95] L. Margherio, The Emerging Digital Economy, U.S. Department

of Commerce, Washington, D.C., 1998.

[96] S. Marsh, Formalizing trust as a computational concept,
Department of Computer Science, University of Stirling, Scot-
land, UK, 1994.

[97] E. Mauldin, V. Arunachalam, An experimental examination
of alternative forms of web assurance for business-to-consumer
e-commerce, Journal of Information Systems 16 (2002) 33–54
(Supplement).

[98] R.C. Mayer, J.H. Davis, F.D. Schoorman, An integrative model of
organizational trust, Academy of Management Review 20 (3)
(1995) 709–734.

[99] D.J. McAllister, Affect- and cognition-based trust as foundations
for interpersonal cooperation in organizations, Academy of
Management Journal 38 (1) (1995) 24–59.

[100] D. McCullough, Web-based market research: the dawning of a

new age, Direct Marketing 61 (8) (1998) 36–37.

[101] D.H. McKnight, N.L. Chervany, What trust means in e-commerce
customer relationships: an interdisciplinary conceptual typolo-
gy, International Journal of Electronic Commerce 6 (2) (2002)
35–60.

[102] D.H. McKnight, L.L. Cummings, N.L. Chervany, Initial trust
formation in new organizational relationships, Academy of
Management Review 23 (3) (1998) 473–490.

[103] D.H. McKnight, V. Choudhury, C. Kacmar, The impact of initial
consumer trust on intentions to transact with a web site: a
trust building model, Journal of Strategic Information Systems 11
(3–4) (2002) 297–323.

[104] D.H. McKnight, C.J. Kacmar, V. Choudhury, Shifting factors and
the ineffectiveness of third party assurance seals: a two-stage
model of initial trust in a web business, Electronic Markets 14 (3)
(2004) 252–266.

[105] S.M. Miranda, C.S. Saunders, The social construction of meaning:
an alternative perspective on information sharing, Information
Systems Research 14 (1) (2003) 87–107.

[106] G.C. Moore, I. Benbasat, Development of an instrument to
measure the perceptions of adopting an information technology
innovation,
(1991)
192–222.

Information Systems Research 2 (3)

[107] C. Moorman, R. Deshpande, G. Zaltman, Factors affecting trust in
market research relationships, Journal of Marketing 57 (1) (1993)
81–101.

[108] A. Moukas, G. Zacharia, P. Maes, Amalthaea and Histos:
multiagent systems for WWW sites and reputation recommenda-
tions, in: M. Klusch (Ed.), Intelligent Information, Springer-
Verlag, 1999.

[109] J.C. Nunnally, Psychometric Theory, 2nd ed.McGraw-Hill, New

York, 1978.

[110] J.C. Nunnally, I.H. Bernstein, Psychometric Theory, 3rd ed.

McGraw-Hill, New York, 1994.

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

563

[111] OECD, The economic and social

impact of electronic
commerce, Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development, 1998 http://www.oecd.org/subject/e_commerce/
summary.htm.

[112] J.S. Olson, G.M. Olson, i2i trust in e-commerce, Association for
Computing Machinery. Communications of the ACM 43 (12)
(2000) 41–44.

[113] T. Pack, Can you trust internet information? Link-Up 16 (6)

(1999) 24.

[114] A. Parasuraman, V.A. Zeithaml, L.L. Berry, SERVQUAL: a
multiple-item scale for measuring customer perceptions of service
quality, Journal of Retailing 64 (1) (1988) 12–40.

[115] P.A. Pavlou, Consumer acceptance of electronic commerce:
integrating trust and risk with the technology acceptance model,
International Journal of Electronic Commerce 7 (3) (2003)
101–134.

[116] P.A. Pavlou, M. Fygenson, “Understanding and Predicting
Electronic Commerce Adoption: An Extension of the Theory of
Planned Behavior", MIS Quarterly 30 (1) (2006) 115–143.
[117] P.A. Pavlou, D. Gefen, Building effective online marketplaces
with institution-based trust, Information Systems Research 15 (1)
(2004) 37–59.

[118] J.P. Peter, M. Ryan, An investigation of perceived risk at the brand
level, Journal of Marketing Research 13 (1976) 184–188.
[119] P.J. Peter, L.X. Tarpey, A comparative analysis of three consumer
decision strategies, Journal of Consumer Research 2 (1) (1975)
29–37.

[120] R.E. Plank, D.A. Reid, E.B. Pullins, Perceived trust in business-to-
business sales: a new measure, The Journal of Personal Selling &
Sales Management 19 (3) (1999) 61–71.

[121] P. Ratnasingam, The importance of trust in electronic commerce,
Internet Research: Electronic Networking Applications and Policy
8 (4) (1998) 313–321.

[122] P. Ratnasingham, The importance of trust in electronic commerce,
Internet Research: Electronic Networking Applications and Policy
8 (4) (1998) 313–321.

[123] P. Ratnasingham,

trust and security,
Internet based EDI
Information Management & Computer Security 6 (1) (1998)
33–39.

[124] T. Ravichandran, A. Rai, Quality management

in systems
development: an organizational system, MIS Quarterly 24 (3)
(2000) 381–415.

[125] P. Resnick, R. Zeckhauser, E. Friedman, K. Kuwabara,
Reputation systems, Communications of the ACM 43 (12)
(2000) 45–48.

[126] J.B. Rotter, Generalized expectancies for interpersonal

trust,

American Psychologist 26 (1971) 443–450.

[127] D.M. Rousseau, S.B. Sitkin, R.S. Burt, C. Camerer, Not so
different after all: a cross discipline view of trust, The Academy of
Management Review 23 (3) (1998) 395–404.

[128] D. Shapiro, B. Sheppard, L. Cheraskin, Business on a handshake,

The Negotiation Journal 8 (1992) 365–377.

[129] S.P. Shapiro, The social control of impersonal trust, American

Journal of Sociology 93 (3) (1987) 623–658.

[130] K.J. Sharif, S.P. Kalafatis, P. Samouel, Cognitive and behavioral
determinants of trust
in small and medium-sized enterprises,
Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development 12 (3)
(2005) 409–421.

[131] N. Sivasailam, D.J. Kim, H.R. Rao, What companies are(n't)
doing about web site assurance, IT Pro 4 (3) (2002) 33–40.
[132] C., Snijders, “Trust and Commitments.” Utrecht, Netherlands:

University of Utrecht, Doctoral Dissertation, (1996).

[133] V. Swaminathan, E. Lepkowska-White, B.P. Rao, Browsers or
buyers in cyberspace? An investigation of factors influencing
electronic exchange, Journal of Computer Mediated Communi-
cation 5 (2) (1999).

[134] J.E. Swan, M.R. Bowers, L.D. Richardson, Customer trust in the
salesperson: an integrative review and meta-analysis of the
empirical literature, Journal of Business Research 44 (2) (1999)
93–107.

[135] G.L. Urban, F. Sultan, W.J. Qualls, Placing trust at the center of
your Internet strategy, Sloan Management Review 42 (1) (2000)
39–48.

[136] R. Walczuch, J. Seelen, H. Lundgren, Psychological determinants
for consumer trust in e-retailing, in: M. Schoop, R. Walczuch
(Eds.), Eighth Research Symposium on Emerging Electronic
Markets (RSEEM 01), Maastricht, Netherlands, 2001, http://
www-i5.informatik.rwth-aachen.de/conf/rseem2001/.

[137] W.L. Wilkie, E.A. Pessemier, Issues in marketing's use of multi-
attribute attitude models, Journal of Marketing Research 10 (4)
(1973) 428–441.

[138] O.E. Williamson, Calculativeness, trust, and economic organiza-
tion, Journal of Law and Economics 36 (1993) 453–486.
[139] B.H. Wixom, H.J. Watson, An empirical investigation of the
factors affecting data warehousing, MIS Quarterly 25 (1) (2001)
17–41.

[140] H. Wold, Partial least squares, in: S. Kotz, N.L. Johnson (Eds.),
Encyclopedia of Statistical Sciences, vol. 6, Wiley, New York,
1985, pp. 581–591.

[141] G. Zacharia, P. Maes, Trust management

through reputation
Intelligence 14 (9) (2000)

mechanisms, Applied Artificial
881–907.

[142] H. Zhang, Trust-promoting seals in electronic markets: impact on
online shopping decisions, Journal of Information Technology
Theory & Application (JITTA) 6 (4) (2004) 29–40.

[143] W. Zikmund, J. Scott, A multivariate analysis of perceived risk,
self confidence and information sources, in: S. Ward, P. Wright
(Eds.), Advances in Consumer Research, vol. 1, Association for
Consumer Research, Urbana, IL, 1973, pp. 406–416.

[144] L. Zucker, Production of trust: institutional sources of economic
structure (1840–1920), Research in Organizational Behavior
8 (1986) 53–111.

Dan J. Kim is an Associate Professor of
Computer Information Systems at the Univer-
sity of Houston Clear Lake. He earned his Ph.
D. in MIS from SUNY at Buffalo. Recently he
has focused on trust in electronic commerce,
wireless and mobile commerce, and informa-
tion security and assurance. His research work
has been published or in forthcoming more than
55 papers in refereed journals and conference
proceedings including Information Systems
Research, Journal of Management Information
Systems, Communications of ACM, Decision Support Systems, Journal
of Organizational and End User Computing, IEEE Transactions on
Professional Communication, Electronic Market, IEEE IT Professional,
Journal of Global Information Management, and International Journal
of Mobile Communications, ICIS, HICSS, AMCIS, INFORMS, ICEC,
ICA, and so on. He received the best-paper runner-up award at the
International Conference on Information Systems (ICIS) 2003 and the
best research paper award at Americas Conference on Information
Systems (AMCIS) 2005.

564

D.J. Kim et al. / Decision Support Systems 44 (2008) 544–564

Don Ferrin (Ph.D., University of Minnesota) is
an Associate Professor and Area Coordinator of
the Organisational Behaviour and Human
Resources Group at Singapore Management
University. His research focuses almost entirely
on trust, including studies examining the role of
in organizational settings, determinants
trust
and consequences of trust in leadership, net-
works of trust within organizations, and the
repair of trust after a violation. His publications

have appeared in Group and Organization Management, Journal of
Applied Psychology, Organization Science, Organizational Behavior
and Human Decision Processes, and Best Papers Proceedings of the
Academy of Management, among others. Recent awards include the Lee
Kuan Yee Fellowship for Research Excellence at Singapore Management
University (2005), the Best Empirical Paper Award from the Conflict
Management Division of the Academy of Management (2005), and The
International Association for Conflict Management's Outstanding Article
Award for Best Article Published in 2004.

H. Raghav Rao graduated from Krannert
Graduate School of Management at Purdue
University. His interests are in the areas of
management
information systems, decision
support systems, e-business, emergency re-
sponse management systems and information
assurance. He has chaired sessions at interna-
tional conferences and presented numerous
papers. He also has co-edited four books of
which one is on Information Assurance in
Financial Services. He has authored or co-
authored more than 150 technical papers, of which more than 75 are
published in archival journals. His work has received best paper and best
paper runner-up awards at AMCIS and ICIS. Dr. Rao has received funding
for his research from the National Science Foundation, the Department of
Defense and the Canadian Embassy and he has received the University's
prestigious Teaching Fellowship. He has also received the Fulbright
fellowship in 2004. He is a co-editor of a special issue of The Annals of
Operations Research, the Communications of ACM, associate editor of
Decision Support Systems, Information Systems Research and IEEE
Transactions in Systems, Man and Cybernetics, and coEditor-in-Chief of
Information Systems Frontiers. Dr. Rao also has a courtesy appointment
with Computer Science and Engineering as adjunct Professor. Professor
Rao's Ph.D. students have placed at Sogang U, UNCG, ASU, USF, FAU,
MSU, OKState, FSU, PennState and others. Professor Rao teaches
Information assurance, Networks and e-commerce. Prof. Rao is also the
recipient of the 2007 State University of New York Chancellor's award for
excellence in scholarship and creative activities.

