Electronic Commerce Research and Applications 11 (2012) 535–536

Contents lists available at SciVerse ScienceDirect

Electronic Commerce Research and Applications

j o u r n a l h o m e p a g e : w w w . e l s e v i e r . c o m / l o c a t e / e c r a

Guest Editors’ Introduction

ECRA Special Issue Introduction for Volume 11, Issue 6, November–December 2012:
Information Services in E-Commerce

During the past decade, largely driven by the emergence of new
technologies and applications such as social networking services,
cloud computing, semantic web, mobile computing, and the Internet
of Things, the practice of electronic commerce has been trans-
formed. Today, it is characterized by mobility, virtualization, per-
sonalization, socialization, and big data. Such changes have raised
the challenge of providing real-time and precise information for
buyers and sellers in e-commerce, so as to help them overcome
the ever-growing online data volume. A related challenge is to sup-
port decision-making in a more timely and efﬁcient way. By the
same token, the business environments are becoming increasingly
service-centric in developed and developing countries, shifting from
goods-dominant to service-dominant operations and business mod-
els. In these settings, quality and effective delivery of services have
become an essential basis for most business transactions. Mean-
while, new developments in information technologies (ITs) and
innovations in business models interact with one another. We see
fusion between them that is shaping the ever-evolving e-commerce
world. This requires cutting-edge research from the behavioral,
technical and management science perspectives to address how
emerging technologies and service innovations can facilitate the fur-
ther development of e-commerce. The research also needs to
address how e-commerce users and information service systems
are likely to co-evolve and adapt to each other.

This special issue focuses on the exploration of technical and
managerial topics with regard to information services in e-com-
merce environments. We solicited original papers that design
and develop new forms of information services for supporting
innovative e-commerce practices, and investigate the behavioral
traits of e-commerce users in the service-dominant environment.
We were happy and encouraged to see that our call for contribu-
tions to this special
issue was well received by e-commerce
researchers. Through a rigorous but developmental review process,
a number of papers made their way forward, and are now pub-
lished here in this special section on information services in Elec-
tronic Commerce Research and Applications. The articles we
selected have brought together three different but tightly interde-
pendent perspectives, namely mechanism design, user percep-
tions, and information search services.

The ﬁrst article is ‘‘Coevolution-Based Mechanism Design for
Sponsored Search Advertising.’’ The authors, Yong Yuan and Daniel
Zeng, take a mechanism design perspective and propose a simula-
tion method to computationally evaluate existing auction mecha-
nisms for sponsored search advertising. The authors emphasize
the link between technical solutions and business models, with
the aim of designing a mechanism for effectively ﬁtting technical
tools with business needs. Based on the concept of co-evolution,

1567-4223/$ - see front matter (cid:2) 2012 Published by Elsevier B.V.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.elerap.2012.09.003

the authors propose several key performance measures for spon-
sored search advertising. They also evaluate them using advertis-
ers’ equilibrium bidding behavior generated in a numerical
simulation of co-evolutionary bidding strategies. Through the pro-
posed method, they assess a number of sponsored search auction
mechanisms, including a number of those currently used in major
search engines.

The second article, ‘‘Perceived Usefulness of Online Consumer
Reviews: An Exploratory Investigation across Three Service Catego-
ries,’’ authored by Pradeep Racherla and Wesley Friske, provides a
user behavioral perspective and investigates individual percep-
tions about online reviews in various service contexts. The paper
aims to reveal the factors that affect the perceived usefulness of
online consumer reviews, so as to provide a more in-depth under-
standing of the online behavior of e-commerce participants. Based
on their observations and theoretical analysis, the authors suggest
that various attributes of the reviewers and the reviews will
inﬂuence consumer receptiveness, and the impacts that are ob-
served will be moderated by the characteristics of different types
of services. Based on data collected from Yelp.com, the authors test
a number of hypotheses. They conclude that reviewer expertise
and reputation have signiﬁcant impacts on the perceived 2useful-
ness of online reviews, while the effects of other factors are mixed.
The ﬁnal article, entitled ‘‘Measuring the Coverage and Redun-
dancy of Information Search Services in E-Commerce Platforms,’’
by Baojun Ma and Qiang Wei, explores a family of metrics that de-
scribe information coverage and information redundancy, in order
to represent different aspects of information diversity. The authors
also examine a related metric for information coverage that they re-
fer to as structure coverage. The question that the authors evaluate
is: How well does a subset of extracted data from a large set of data
represent the latter? This is a valuable question to ask, because
many information search services users make somewhat different
queries to represent essentially the same general questions that
they wish to ask. One may argue that ‘‘not all queries are created
equal.’’ The theoretical and experimental work that the authors re-
port on provides a means for them to make this interesting claim.
The proof is in the data that the slightly different queries return,
analyzed according to their approach. The work demonstrates high
relevance, as is desirable for works published in Electronic Commerce
Research and Applications. It evaluates the performance of the pro-
posed measures for information diversity and coverage in the con-
text of e-commerce-related customer reviews. The computational,
experimental and theoretical nature of this research makes it stand
out among research papers that have appeared in the journal.

The diversiﬁed but closely related angles of these articles will
contribute to the existing literature on information services in

536

Editorial / Electronic Commerce Research and Applications 11 (2012) 535–536

e-commerce, highlighting the new characteristics of the e-com-
merce environment. They reﬂect the current state-of-art in the re-
search realm they cover, from the perspectives of mechanism
design, user behavior and information search services.

As the guest editors of this special section, we would like to
thank all of the authors for their contributions and all of the review-
ers for their kind cooperation and insightful help. We heartily thank
Professor Rob Kauffman, Editor-in-Chief of ECRA, for providing us
with the opportunity to edit and publish this issue, as well as for
his valuable guidance in the editorial process. We would also like
to extend our thanks to ECRA’s Editorial Assistants, Dr. Huang-chi
Lin in Taiwan and Ms. Tong Li in the US, who provided solid support
and helpful assistance for the reviewers and authors to complete
the editorial process during the past couple years.

Guoqing Chen
Xunhua Guo
School of Economics and Management, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China
E-mail addresses: chengq@sem.tsinghua.edu.cn (Subhash C. Chen),
guoxh@sem.tsinghua.edu.cn (Subhash C. Guo)

J. Leon Zhao
College of Business, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong
E-mail addresses: guoxh@sem.tsinghua.edu.cn

Available online 13 October 2012

